Discover India Packages Sl.No. Package Name No. of Nights/Days Places Covered Page No. NORTH INDIA 1 Golden Triangle 5 Nights / 6 Days Delhi / Agra / Jaipur / Delhi 3 2 Delhi & Agra 3 Nights / 4 Days Delhi / Agra / Delhi 4 3 Rajasthan Tour 6 Nights / 7 Days Delhi / Agra / Jaipur / Pushkar / Udaipur /Mount Abu / Udaipur 5 4 Golden Triangle & Wildlife 6 Nights / 7 Days Delhi / Agra / Ranthambore / Jaipur 6 5 Himachal Delight 5 Nights / 6 Days Chandigarh / Shimla / Manali / Chandigarh 7 6 Scenic Himachal & Golden Temple 7 Nights / 8 Days Amritsar / Dharamshala / Dalhousie / Chandigarh 8 7 Romantic Uttaranchal 6 Nights / 7 Days Delhi / Mussoorie / Corbett/ Nainital / Delhi 9 8 Best of Kashmir 6 Nights / 7 Days Sringar / Sonmarg / Gulmarg / Pahalgam / Srinagar 10 9 Valley of Flower in Ladakh 6 Nights / 7 Days Leh / Nubra Valley / Pangong Lake / Leh 11 10 Vaishnodevi with Jammu 3 Nights / 4 Days Jammu / Katra / Vaishnodevi / Jammu 12 11 Chardham Yatra 9 Nights / 10 Days Delhi /Haridwar / Rudraprayag /Kedarnath / Badrinath /Joshimath / Rishikesh / Delhi 13 12 Varanasi & Patna 5 Nights / 6 Days Varanasi / Bodhgaya / Ragjir / Patna 14 EAST INDIA 1 Best of East 7 Nights/ 8 Days Bagdogra / Darjeeling / Kalimpong / Gangtok  - Tsomgo Lake / Bagdogra 15 2 Darjeeling Tour 5 Nights / 6 Days Bagdogra / Gangtok / Darjeeling / Bagdogra 16 3 Cherrapunji Tour 4 Nights / 5 Days Guwahati / Cherrapunji / Guwhati 17 4 Kaziranga & Cherrapunji Tour 5 Nights / 6 Days Guwahati / Kaziranga National Park / Shillong / Cherrapunji / Guwahati 18 5 Jewel of East 7 Nights / 8 Days Guwahati / Bhalukpong / Bomdila / Tawang / Dirang / Nameri / Guwhati 19 6 Heritage of Odisha 3 Nights / 4 days Bhubaneshwar / Puri  - Ratnagiri - Bhitarkanika / Bhuvaneshwar 20 7 Odisha Package 4 Nights / 5 Days Bhubaneshwar / Konark / Puri - Chilika / Bhuvaneshwar 21 8 Assam Despatch Cruise 2 7 Nights / 8 Days Guwahati to Silghat 22 9 Assam Despatch Cruise 7 4 Nights / 5 Days Brahmaputra Taster -guwahati to Guwahati 23 CENTRAL INDIA 1 Madhya Pradesh Heritage 6 Nights / 7 Days Bhopal / Sanchi / Ujjain / Indore / Mandu / Maheshwar / Indore 24 2 Spiritual Madhya Pradesh 4 Nights / 5 Days Indore / Ujjain / Maheshwar / Mandu / Indore 25 3 Bhopal Package 1 4 Nights / 5 Days Bhopal / Pachmari /Bhopal 26 4 Bhopal Package 2 6 Nights / 7 Days Jabalapur / Satpura National Park / Pachmarhi / Bandhavagarh / Jabalapur 27 5 Khajuraho & Orchha 2 Nights / 3 Days Khajuraho / Orchha / Gwalior 28 6 Wild Madhya Pradesh 6 Nights / 7 Days Jabalpur / Bandhavgarh / Kanha / Pench / Nagpur 29 WEST INDIA 1 Gujarat Package 1 4 Nights / 5 Days Jamnagar / Dwarka / Somnath / Rajkot 30 2 Gujarat Package 2 6 Nights / 7 Days Ahmedabad / Jamnagar / Dwarka / Somnath / Sasan Gir / Diu 31 3 Gir & Somnath Tour 4 Nights / 5 Days Rajkot / Sasan Gir / Somnath / Diu 32 4 Ajanta, Ellora & Aurangabad 3 Nights / 4 Days Aurangabad – Ajanta - Ellora / Aurangabad 33 5 Goa Package 1 4 Nights / 5 Days North Goa & South Goa 34 6 Goa Package 2 3 Nights / 4 Days North Goa & South Goa 35 7 Shirdi Package 2 Nights / 3 Days Pune / Shirdi – Shingnapur / Pune 36 8 Shirdi, Nashik & Mumbai Package 4 Nights / 5 Days Pune / Shirdi – Shingnapur / Nashik / Mumbai 37 9 Wine Tour 2 Nights / 3 Days Nashik 38 SOUTH INDIA 1 Exotic Coorg 3 Nights / 4 Days Bangalore / Coorg / Bangalore 39 2 Kerala Package 1 5 Nights / 6 Days Cochin / Munnar / Thekkady / Alleppey – House Boat / Cochin 40 3 Kerala Package 2 3 Nights / 4 Days Trivandrum / Kovalam - Kanyakumari / Trivandrum 41 4 Kerala Delight 5 Nights / 6 Days Cochin / Munnar / Kumarakom / Alleppey / Cochin 42 5 Tirupati Package 1 Night / 2 Days Bangalore / Tirupati / Bangalore 43 6 Lakshwadeep Package 4 Nights / 5 Days Cochin / Minicoy Island / Kalpeni Island / Kavaratti Island / Cochin (Package in Cruise) 44 7 Andaman Package 1 3 Nights / 4 Days Portblair / Havelock Island / Portblair 45 8 Andaman Package 2 4 Nights/ 5 Days Portblair / Havelock Island /Portblair 46 9 Karnataka Heritage Tour 1 4 Nights / 5 Days Bangalore / Chitradurga / Hospet – Hampi / Bangalore 47 10 Karnataka Heritage Tour 2 6 Nights / 7 Days Bangalore / Hospet - Hampi / Bijapur / Badami / Goa 48 11 Karnataka Spiritual Tour 5 Nights / 6 Days Mangalore / Udupi / Murudeshwar / Gokarna / Sringeri / Mangalore 49 12 Mysore & Ooty 4 Nights / 5 Days Bangalore / Mysore / Ooty / Bangalore 50 13 Bandipur & Wayanad Tour 3 Nights / 4 Days Bangalore / Bandipur / Wayanad / Bangalore 51 14 Madurai & Munnar 4 Nights / 5 Days Madurai / Munnar / Madurai 52 15 Pondicherry Getaway 3 Nights / 4 Days Bangalore / Pondicherry / Bangalore 53


Golden Triangle Delhi / Agra / Jaipur / Delhi 5 Nights / 6 Days Day 01: Delhi Meet on arrival at Delhi Airport and transfer to Hotel.  Relax and proceed  to visit New Delhi - This city designed and built by the British in the 1920's. visit Humayun's Tomb, Qutub Minar - built by Qutub-ud-Din Aibek in 1199, Red Fort (visit subject to security permission), the most opulent Fort and Palace of the Mughal Empire. Back to hotel.  Overnight. Day 02: Delhi: Breakfast, proceed for full day local sightseeing visit tour of Old Delhi. Old Delhi - An ancient walled city. Visit India Gate and drive past President's House, Parliament House and Government Secretariat Building, Raj Ghat, the memorial site of the Mahatma Gandhi, Jama Masjid - the largest mosque in India and Chandini Chowk, the bustling and colourful market of the old city. Overnight. Jahan, the Taj is a white marble memorial to his beautiful wife Mumtaz Mahal. This monument took 22 years to be completed and was designed, and planned by Persian architect Ustad Isa, Agra Fort - Built by the famed Mughal emperor Akbar in 1565 AD, the fort is predominantly of red sandstone. Ensconced within is the picture perfect Pearl Mosque, which is a major tourist attraction. Overnight. (Taj Mahal remains closed on every Friday) Day 04: Agra / Jaipur Breakfast checkout and drive to Jaipur, enroute visit Fatehpur Sikri - The deserted, red Sandstone City, Emperor Akbar built that as his capital and palace in the late 16th century is an exhilarating experience. It a veritable fairytale city and its "ruins" are in pristine condition.  On arrival check into Hotel.  Relax and later proceed to visit Jantar Mantar (Solar Observatory), an astronomical treasure house, with solar devices that give accurate predictions till date, The City Palace - includes the Chandra Mahal and Mubarak Mahal palaces. Back to hotel. Overnight. Day 05: Jaipur Amber Fort Morning after breakfast proceed to visit enjoy the experience of ride on elephant back to and from the top of the hill on which the fort is situated , Hawa Mahal - The ornamental facade of this " Palace of Winds " is a prominent landmark in Jaipur. It is a five-storey structure of sandstone plastered pink encrusted with fine trellis work and elaborate balconies, Jaigarh Fort – which was mainly utilized as the defense system against the invaders. Overnight. Day 06: Jaipur / Delhi Back to Hotel. Early breakfast checkout and drive to Delhi to board the flight or transfer to Jaipur Airport to board the flight  for onward destination. Tour Ends. Day 03: Delhi/Agra Morning breakfast checkout and drive to Agra. On arrival check into Hotel. Later proceed to visit Taj Mahal - Built by Shah PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years SILVER 3* Includes: 19000 15000 13500 25000 2750 Free • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner. Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax

lhi and Agra Delhi / Agra / Delhi 3 Nights / 4 Days Day 01: Delhi/Agra Meet on arrival at Delhi Airport and drive to Agra. On arrival proceed to visit Taj Mahal - Built by Shah Jahan, the Taj is a white marble memorial to his beautiful wife Mumtaz Mahal. This monument took 22 years to be completed and was designed, and planned by Persian architect Ustad Isa, Agra Fort - Built by the famed Mughal emperor Akbar in 1565 AD, the fort is predominantly of red sandstone. Ensconced within is the picture perfect Pearl Mosque, which is a major tourist attraction.  Overnight. (Taj Mahal remains closed on every Friday) Day 02: Agra / Delhi Breakfast checkout and drive to Delhi - This city designed and built by the British in the 1920's. On arrival check into Hotel.  Later proceed to visit Humayun's Tomb, Qutub Minar - built by Qutub-ud-Din Aibek in 1199, Red Fort (visit subject to security permission), the most opulent Fort and Palace of the Mughal Empire. Back to hotel.  Overnight. Day 03: Delhi Breakfast, proceed for full day local sightseeing visit tour of Old Delhi. Old Delhi - An ancient walled city. Visit India Gate and drive past President's House, Parliament House & Government Secretariat Building, Raj Ghat, the memorial site of the Mahatma Gandhi, Jama Masjid - the largest mosque in India and Chandini Chowk, the bustling and colourful market of the old city. Overnight. Day 04: Delhi Morning proceed for local sightseeing and later in the evening transfer to Delhi Airport to board the flight for onward destination. Tour Ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years 14000 11800 SILVER 3* 9000 16800 3000 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax


Rajasthan Tour Delhi / Agra / Jaipur / Pushkar / Udaipur / Mount Abu / Udaipur 6 Nights / 7 Days Day 01: Delhi: Meet on arrival at Delhi Airport and transfer to Hotel.  Relax and proceed  to visit New Delhi - This city designed and built by the British in the 1920's. visit Humayun's Tomb, Qutub Minar - built by Qutub-ud-Din Aibek in 1199, Red Fort (visit subject to security permission), the most opulent Fort and Palace of the Mughal Empire, India Gate and drive pass through President's House, Parliament House, Government Secretariat Building and Raj Ghat. Back to hotel. Overnight. Day 03: Delhi/Agra Morning breakfast checkout and drive to Agra. On arrival check into Hotel. Later proceed to visit Taj Mahal - Built by Shah Jahan, the Taj is a white marble memorial to his beautiful wife Mumtaz Mahal. This monument took 22 years to be completed and was designed, and planned by Persian architect Ustad Isa, Agra Fort - Built by the famed Mughal emperor Akbar in 1565 AD, the fort is predominantly of red sandstone. Ensconced within is the picture perfect Pearl Mosque, which is a major tourist attraction. Overnight. (Taj Mahal remains closed on every Friday) Day 04: Agra / Jaipur Breakfast checkout and drive to Jaipur, enroute visit Fatehpur Sikri-The deserted, red Sandstone City, Emperor Akbar built that as his capital and palace in the late 16th century is an exhilarating experience. It a veritable fairytale city and its "ruins" are in pristine condition.  On arrival check into Hotel. Relax and later proceed to visit Jantar Mantar (Solar Observatory), an astronomical treasure house, with solar devices that give accurate predictions till date, The City Palace - includes the Chandra Mahal and Mubarak Mahal palaces. Back to hotel. Overnight. Day 04: Jaipur/ Pushkar Morning after breakfast checkout and proceed to visit Amber Fort enjoy the experience of ride on elephant back to and from the top of the hill on which the fort is situated , Hawa Mahal - The ornamental facade of this "Palace of Winds" is a prominent landmark in Jaipur. It is a five-storey structure of sandstone plastered pink encrusted with fine trellis work and elaborate balconies, Jaigarh Fort – which was mainly utilized as the defense system against the invaders, Later drive to Pushkar. Relax and Overnight. Day 05: Pushkar / Udaipur Morning breakfast checkout and proceed to visit temple of Lord Brahma surrounded by Pushkar Lake. On the banks of the lake see devotees taking dip into the holy waters of Pushkar & offering prayers. Later drive to Udaipur. On arrival check into hotel. Relax and later in the evening take boat ride over Lake Pichola experience of which is beyond any comparison. Back to hotel. Overnight. Day 06: Udaipur / Mount Abu / Udaipur: Breakfast and drive for day visit to Mount Abu-one and only hill station of Rajasthan. Later take tour of Mount Abu to cover Delwara Temple, Nakki Lake, Tod Rock and Sunset point. Back to Udaipur.  Overnight. Day 07: Udaipur Breakfast checkout and transfer to Udaipur Airport to board the flight for onward destination.  Tour Ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years 24500 21750 SILVER 3* 19500 31000 3300 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner. Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax 

Golden Triangle & Wildlife Delhi / Agra / Ranthambore / Jaipur 6 Nights / 7 Days Day 01: Delhi Meet on arrival at Delhi Airport and transfer to Hotel. Relax and proceed  to visit New Delhi - This city designed and built by the British in the 1920's. visit Humayun's Tomb, Qutub Minar - built by Qutub-ud-Din Aibek in 1199, Red Fort (visit subject to security permission), the most opulent Fort and Palace of the Mughal Empire. Back to hotel.  Overnight. Day 02: Delhi Breakfast, proceed for full day local sightseeing visit tour of Old Delhi. Old Delhi - An ancient walled city. Visit India Gate and drive past President's House, Parliament House and Government Secretariat Building, Raj Ghat, the memorial site of the Mahatma Gandhi, Jama Masjid - the largest mosque in India and Chandini Chowk, the bustling and colourful market of the old city. Overnight. Day 03: Delhi/Agra Morning breakfast checkout and drive to Agra. On arrival check into Hotel. Later proceed to visit Taj Mahal - Built by Shah Jahan, the Taj is a white marble memorial to his beautiful wife Mumtaz Mahal. This monument took 22 years to be completed and was designed, and planned by Persian architect Ustad Isa, Agra Fort - Built by the famed Mughal emperor Akbar in 1565 AD, the fort is predominantly of red sandstone. Ensconced within is the picture perfect Pearl Mosque, which is a major tourist attraction. Overnight. (Taj Mahal remains closed on every Friday) Day 04: Agra / Ranthambore Morning breakfast checkout and drive to Ranthambore. On arrival check into Hotel.  Relax and overnight. Day 05: Ranthambore Early morning proceed for safari in the biggest and most renowned National Park in Northern India. Being considered as one of the famous and former hunting grounds of the Maharajas of Jaipur, Back to hotel. Relax and evening again proceed for safari.  Relax and Overnight. Note: Safari Timings (Morning Safari: 6:30 A.M to 10:00 A.M , Evening Safari: 2:30 P.M to 6:00 P.M) Day 06: Ranthambore/Jaipur Morning after breakfast check out and drive to Jaipur. On arrival check in to Hotel. Later proceed for sightseeing, Jantar Mantar Observatory - This is the largest and the best preserved of the five observatories built by Jai Singh II in different parts of the country,  and The City Palace - includes the Chandra Mahal and Mubarak Mahal palaces. Back to hotel. Overnight. Back to hotel. Overnight. Day 07: Jaipur  Morning after breakfast proceed to visit Amber Fort enjoy the experience of ride on elephant back to and from the top of the hill on which the fort is situated, Hawa Mahal - The ornamental facade of this "Palace of Winds" is a prominent landmark in Jaipur. It is a five-storey structure of sandstone plastered pink encrusted with fine trellis work and elaborate balconies. Later transfer to Jaipur Airport to board the flight for onward destination. Tour Ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years 26500 23500 SILVER 3* 21000 31500 3300 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes Excludes: • Lunch and Dinner • Safari charges • • • Guide service and entrance fees Flight/Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax


Himachal Delight Chandigarh / Shimla / Manali / Chandigarh 5 Nights / 6 Days Day 01: Chandigarh / Shimla Meet on arrival at Chandigarh Airport  and drive to Shimla. Enroute visit the panoramic views of lush green valleys and majestic mountains from the windows of your cab. During the travel to Shimla cab will pass through Kalka, Parwanoo, Barog and Solan. On arrival check into Resort.   Relax and overnight. Day 02: Shimla After breakfast proceed for sightseeing visit Sankat Mochan Temple, Mini Veshno Devi Cave, Vice Regal Lodge, Army Museum, Jakhoo Temple. Evening on the Ridge & Mall. Night stay at hotel. Day 03: Shimla/ Manali Early breakfast checkout and drive to Manali enroute visit Pandoh Dam, Beas river, Sutlaj River, Beas Sutlaj Link Project, Kullu Valley and Dassehra Maidan. On arrival check into your hotel.  Relax and overnight. Day 04: Manali / Rohtang Pass / Manali Morning breakfast, proceed for an excursion to Rohtang Pass, located 51 km from Manali, 3978 meters high, which for centuries was the gateway to the trading routes that led to Lahaul, Ladakh and Central Asia. From the crest of the pass, one can take in a sweeping panorama of Mountain Ranges, Pinnacles, precipitous  cliffs,  ridges, huge  glaciers, moraine  and deep ravines. Back to hotel. Overnight. Day 05: Manali After breakfast proceed for sightseeing visit Hadimba Temple, Club House, Vashishth Bath , Monastery & Van Vihar & Market. Back to hotel. Overnight. Day 06: Manali / Chandigarh Breakfast checkout and drive to Chandigarh. On arrival check into Hotel. Depending upon the arrival time proceed for shopping. Overnight. Day07: Chandigarh Breakfast checkout and proceed for local sightseeing visit Sukhna Lake and Rock Garden and later drop to Chandigarh Airport to board the flight for onward destination. Tour Ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years 18500 17500 SILVER 3* 19000 26500 2800 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner. Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax Skyway International Travels 76 Scenic Himachal & Golden Temple Amritsar/ Dharamshala / Dalhousie / Chandigarh 7 Nights / 8 Days Day 01: Amritsar Meet on arrival at Amritsar Airport and transfer to Hotel.  Relax and evening free to explore the local market. Pamper your taste buds as Amritsar is a very popular destination among foodies. Day 02: Amritsar After breakfast, set out for a full day city tour. Begin this with the Golden Temple. Continue to Jallianwala Bagh and Durgiana Mandir. In the afternoon, visit Wagah Border to attend the Beating Retreat ceremony held before sunset (reach the border by 4:30 p.m). After this, Proceed to dine across the city market. Overnight stay at hotel. Day 03: Amritsar / Dharamshala Breakfast checkout and drive to Dharamshala. On arrival check into Hotel.  Relax and overnight. Day 04: Dharamshala After breakfast, proceed for a city tour visit Dalai Lama Temple Complex, Bhagsunag Fall & Temple, Church of St. John, War Memorial, Kangra Art Museum, Cricket Stadium and Norburlinka Institute. Return to Hotel. Overnight. Day 05: Dharamshala / Dalhousie Breakfast checkout and drive to Dalhousie. On arrival check into Hotel.  Relax and overnight. Day 06: Dalhousie / Khajjiar / Dalhousie Breakfast and proceed for day visit to Khajjiar – Primarily is a place to enjoy the natural beauty of the mountains. Return to Dalhousie. Overnight. Day 07: Dalhousie / Chandigarh Breakfast checkout and drive to Chandigarh.  On arrival check into Hotel. Depending upon the arrival time proceed for shopping. Overnight. Day 08: Chandigarh Breakfast checkout and proceed for local sightseeing visit Sukhna Lake and Rock Garden and later drop to Chandigarh Airport to board the flight for onward destination.  Tour Ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years 28500 23900 SILVER 3* 26500 37000 3900 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner. Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax 8 Skyway International Travels7 Romantic Uttaranchal Delhi / Mussoorie / Corbett/ Nainital / Delhi 6 Nights / 7 Days Day 01: Delhi / Mussoorie Meet on arrival at Delhi Airport and drive to Mussoorie. On arrival check into Hotel.  Relax and overnight. Day 02: Mussoorie Morning breakfast and proceed for local sightseeing visit Municipal Garden, Gun Hill, Mussoorie Lake and the Mall. Back to hotel. Overnight. Day 03: Mussoorie / Corbett National Park Morning breakfast drive to Corbett National Park. On arrival check into Hotel.  Relax and overnight. Day 04: Corbett National Park Early in the morning, enjoy a Jungle Safari in Corbett National Park (Optional). Rest of the day free for own activities. Overnight at the hotel. Day 05: Corbett / Nainital Morning breakfast checkout and drive to Nainital. On arrival check into Hotel.  Later proceed to visit Naini Lake, Hanuman Garhi and the Mall. Rest of the time free at leisure. Overnight. Day 06: Nainital Morning breakfast proceed for day excursion to Bhimtal, Naukuchiya Tall and Sattall. Return to Nainital. Overnight. Day 07: Nainital / Delhi Morning breakfast checkout and drive to Delhi. On arrival drop to Delhi Airport to board the flight for onward destination. Tour Ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons TOUR COST PER PERSON 24500 20500 SILVER 3* (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years 21000 32000 3300 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes Excludes: • Lunch and Dinner • Safari charges • • • Guide service and entrance fees Flight/Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax Skyway International Travels 98 Best of Kashmir Sringar / Sonmarg / Gulmarg / Pahalgam / Srinagar 6 Nights / 7 Days Day 01: Srinagar Meet on arrival at Srinagar Airport and transfer to House Boat. Relax and overnight. Day 02: Srinagar Morning breakfast checkout and transfer to Hotel.  Later proceed to visit world famous Mughal Gardens visiting the Nishat Bagh (The garden of pleasure) and Shalimar Bagh (Abode of love). In the afternoon enjoy a Shikara ride on The Dal Lake. Overnight. Day 03: Srinagar / Sonmarg Morning breakfast checkout and drive to Sonamarg -  lies in Sindh Valley streamed with flowers and surrounded by mountains. On arrival check into Hotel.  Later take a pony ride to Thajiwas Glacier where snow remains round the year. Return to the hotel. Overnight. Day 04: Sonmarg / Gulmarg Morning breakfast checkout and drive to Gulmarg. On arrival check into Hotel. After lunch proceed for Gondala Ride (Cable Car) from Gulmarg to Khalinmarg or Horse Riding or enjoy the nature walk in Gulmarg. Gulmarg is surrounded by all sides of Chain of mountains which ranges from 4000m to 5000m. Back to hotel. Overnight. Day 05: Gulmarg / Pahalgam Morning breakfast checkout and drive to Pahalgam. On arrival check into Hotel. After lunch free.  Overnight. Day 06 : Pahalgam Morning breakfast proceed to visit Chandanwadi, The snow Point (14 Kms) or enjoy pony ride, Back to hotel. Rest of the day at leisure to explore the countryside and enjoy leisurely walks through the pine forest along the River Lidder. Dinner & overnight. Day 07: Pahalgam / Srinagar Morning breakfast, checkout and drive to Srinagar. On arrival drop to Airport to board the flight for onward destination. Tour Ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years 26500 21500 SILVER 3* 19000 31500 3300 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax 10 Skyway International Travels9 Valley of Flower in Ladakh Leh / Nubra Valley / Pangong Lake / Leh 6 Nights / 7 Days Day 01: Arrive Leh Arrive at Leh Airport - 3500m above sea level. On arrival check into Hotel. Later proceed to visit Leh Palace, Shanti Stupa & Leh market. Back to hotel.  Overnight. Day 02: Leh Breakfast and proceed to visit Shey Palace, Thiksey Monastery, Hemis Monastery, Stok Palace Museum.  Afternoon visit Shanti Stupa.  Overnight. Day 03: Leh / Nubra Valley After early breakfast checkout and drive to Nubra valley the 120 Kms approximately 4 to 5 hrs. Via Khardungla (18380 ft.), Highest Motor able road in the World) on arrive explore Diskit, Hunder Villages, Later check into a fixed camp in the same area.  Overnight. Day 04: Nubra Valley / Leh Breakfast and visit to explore Deskit, Hundar and ths Sand Dunes where you can enjoy a short camel safari using the double humped Bactrian Camel found here.  Back to hotel. Overnight. Day 05: Leh / Pangong Lake / Leh After early Breakfast leave for Pangong Lake (14,500 ft.), through Changla Pass 17,350 ft., it is the third highest motor able road in the world.  Arrive at Pangong Lake it is the highest salt water Lake in the World, shared by two countries India & China. Enjoy the beauty of the lake on the Banks of Pangong Lake while appreciating the changing Colors and fascinating high altitude of the Lake. In late afternoon drive back to Leh, dinner and overnight. Day 06: Leh Morning at leisure.  Afternoon visit Sangam, Magnetic point, Gurudwara Pathar Sahib, Kali Mata (Temple of Guardians in Spituk Monastery) & Hall oif Fame.  Evening explore local market.  Overnight. Day 07: Leh In the morning transfer to the airport to board the flight for your onward destination. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years 27500 22500 SILVER 3* 21800 31500 3300 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax Skyway International Travels 1110 Vaishnodevi with Jammu Jammu / Katra / Vaishnodevi / Jammu 3 Nights / 4 Days Day 01: Jammu / Katra Meet on arrival at Jammu airport and drive to Katra. On arrival check into Hotel.  Overnight. Day 02: Katra / Vaishnodevi / Katra  Early in the morning proceed to visit the Holy temple of Vaishno Devi. This temple is situated on the top of the hill. To visit this temple one has to hire pony or travel by foot. From Katra the Vaishno Devi pilgrimage is about 12 kms. After visiting the temple return back to Katra. Overnight. Day 03: Katra / Jammu: Breakfast checkout and drive to Jammu.  On arrival check into Hotel.  Relax or proceed for local sightseeing. Overnight. Day 04: Jammu: Breakfast checkout and transfer to Airport to board the flight for onward destination. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years 15600 11800 SILVER 3* 12600 17200 1700 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax 12 Skyway International Travels11 Chardham Yatra Haridwar / Barkot / Uttarkashi / Guptkashi / Kedarnath / Badrinath / Rudraprayag / Haridwar 9 Nights / 10 Days Day 01: Haridwar / Barkot Pickup from Haridwar Railway Station / Dehradun Airport / Railway Station and drive to Barkot via Mussoorie, enroute visit Kempty Fall (Suggestible to have your lunch at Kempty fall as further no good restaurants are available before Barkot). Later drive to Barkot. On arrival transfer to Hotel.  Overnight. Day 02: Barkot / Yamunotri / Barkot Early morning, drive to Jankichatti / Phoolchatti, trek start from here to Yamunotri (6kms). Either by walk or by horse or by Doli at own cost. On arrival at Yamunotri, One can cook rice by packing it in a cloth and dipping it in the hot water of the hot kund. Pilgrims take this cooked rice home as "Prasad". Here near the temple "Pooja" can be offered to Divya Shila, After taking bath in Jamunabai Kund's warn water and having "Darshan" of pious "Yamunaji" returning to Jankichatti. Return back to Barkot. Overnight. Day 03: Barkot / Uttarkashi Breakfast checkout and drive to Uttarkashi,  Visit Vishwanath Temple & Other Temple.  On arrival check into Hotel. Rest day at leisure. Overnight. Day 04: Uttarkashi / Gangotri / Uttarkashi Early morning checkout and drive to Gangotri, enroute visit Gangnani take a holy dip in Garam Kund, further drive to Gangotri via beautiful Harsil Valley. Harsil is famous for its nature beauty and for the majestic views of the Deodar trees, and mountains. On arrival at Shree Gangotri, take a holy dip in the sacred river Ganges which is also called Bhagirathi at its origin. Perform Pooja and Darshan, after that relax for some time in the lovely surroundings. Return back to Uttarkashi. Overnight stay at Uttarkashi. Gangotri Temple: The temple, constructed by the Gorkha General Amar Singh Thapa in the 18th Century, is situated on the right bank of Bhagirathi. Day 05: Uttarkashi / Guptkashi Breakfast checkout and drive straight to Guptkashi via Moolgarh & Lambgoan. Enroute visit beautiful river Mandakini at Tilwara. The Mandakini river comes from Kedarnath, drive alongside the river to reach Guptakashi. On arrival Check in to the Hotel. Evening visit Ardh Narishwar Temple. Overnight. Day 06: Guptkashi / Kedarnath After medical check-up proceed to Sonprayag, Trek start from Sonprayag to Kedarnath (3584 mts) by pony / Doli. Tour members should carry personal medicines, heavy woolen, toiletries and clothes for an overnight halt at Kedarnath. Visit Kedarnath Temple. Overnight stay.  Day 07: Kedarnath / Guptkashi: Early morning, after Temple Darshan drive to Guptkashi. Check in Hotel. Overnight. Day 08: Guptkashi / Badrinath Breakfast checkout and drive to Badrinath via Joshimath. Check in Hotel. Later at evening visit Badrinath Temple for Aarti. Overnight stay. Day 09: Badrinath/ Rudraprayag: Early morning, pilgrims after having a bath in the Taptkund have the Darshan of Badrivishal. Brahamakapal is significant for Pinddan Shraddh of ancestors (Pitrus). There are other interesting sightseeing spot like Mana, Vyas Gufa, Maatamoorti, Charanpaduka, Bhimkund and the "Mukh" of the Saraswati River. Just within the three kms of Badrinathjee. Later drive back to Rudraprayag / Kirtinagar via Joshimath. Check in Hotel. Overnight. Day 10: Rudraprayag / Rishikesh / Haridwar: Breakfast checkout and drive to Rishikesh, the 'place of sages' is a celebrated spiritual town on the bank of Ganga  and is surrounded by Shivalik range of the Himalayas on three sides. It is said that when Raibhya Rishi did hard penances, God appeared by the name of " Hrishikesh " and this area hence firth came to be known as Rishikesh. Visit Rishikesh Temples & Sight Seeing – Laxman Jhulla, Ram Jhulla, Triveni Ghat, Bharat Mandir, Shivananda Ashram. Later transfer to Haridwar Railway Station / Dehradun Airport. Tour Ends. Chardham Yatra Fixed Departure Dates - 2017 May 5, 8, 10, 12, 15, 18, 20, 22, 25, 28, 31 June 2, 5, 8 , 10 , 12, 15, 18, 20, 22, 25, 27, 30 July 2, 5, 10, 12, 15, 18, 20, 22, 25 August 2, 5, 10, 15 , 20 , 25, 28 PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years 46500 23000 SILVER 3* 40000 38500 16500 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with breakfast & dinner with all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax Skyway International Travels 131








Varanasi & Patna Varanasi / Bodhgaya / Ragjir / Patna 5 Nights / 6 Days Day 01: Varanasi Meet on arrival at Varanasi Airport and transfer to the hotel. Evening visit one of the many Ghats of Varanasi to witness the evening Aarti – an unforgettable experience. Stay overnight at the hotel. Day 02: Varanasi Early morning transfer to the Ghats of Holy River Ganges to take a boat ride – a very spiritual experience. Later walk through the narrow lanes of Varanasi exploring various temples .After breakfast full day Sarnath tour where Buddha delivered his first sermon. Stay overnight at the hotel. Day 03: Varanasi / Bodhgaya Breakfast checkout and drive to Bodhgaya. On arrival check into Hotel.  Later visit Mahabodhi Temple. Overnight. Day 04: Bodhgaya After breakfast full day Bodhgaya visit various temple and monastery. Overnight. Day 05: Bodhgaya / Rajgir/ Nalanda / Patna ( 200 Km & 3-4 hrs drive ) Breakfast check out and drive to Patna enroute visit Rajgir amd Nalanda. On arrival check into Hotel.  Overnight. Day 06: Patna Breakfast check out and transfer to Airport to board the flight for onward destination. Tour Ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years 23850 19000 SILVER 3* 18000 26000 2800 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax 14 Skyway International TravelsEAST INDIA Best of East Bagdogra / Darjeeling / Kalimpong / Gangtok  - Tsomgo Lake / Bagdogra 7 Nights/ 8 Days Day 01: Bagdogra /  Kalimpong Meet on arrival at Bagdogra Airport & drive to Kalimpong. On arrival Check-in to hotel & rest of the day at leisure. Overnight stay at Kalimpong. Day 02: Kalimpong Sightseeing / Darjeeling After breakfast enjoy half day tour of Kalimpong visit Mangal Dham, Deolo Hill, Dr. Graham's Home, Golf Garden, Durpin Dara Hills & Flowers Nurseries.  Later drive to Darjeeling (6,950 ft.). On arrival Check-in to hotel & and accommodate. Overnight stay at Darjeeling. Day 03: Darjeeling Sightseeing Early Morning (at 04:00 am) drive to Tiger hill (8,400 ft.) to watch the spectacular sunrise over Mt. Khangchendzongha (28,208 ft. Worlds 3rd highest peak), on your way back visit Ghoom Monastery and Batasia Loop. After breakfast visit Himalayan Mountaineering Institute, P.N. Zoological Park (Thursday closed), Tenzing Rock, Tibetan Refugee self-help Centre (Sunday closed), Tea Garden (outer view), Ropeway and Japanese Temple.Evening free for shopping or leisure.Overnight stay at Darjeeling. Day 04: Darjeeling / Pelling This morning after breakfast transfer to Pelling (6,300 ft.) via Singla Check post.On arrival check-in to your hotel. Overnight stay at Pelling. Day 05: Pelling Sightseeing After breakfast proceed for full day sightseeing. 1st Half tour - Darap village, Rimbi water Falls,  Khecheopalri Lake & Khangchendzongha waterfalls. In afternoon start for 2nd Half tour - Pemayangtse Monastery, Rabdantse Ruins, New Helipad Ground. Overnight stay at Pelling. Day 06: Pelling / Gangtok After breakfast transfer to Gangtok (5,500 ft.). Enroute visit Temi Tea Garden, Samdruptse & Siddheshwar Dham (Chardham) in Namchi. On arrival Checkin to hotel & rest of the day at leisure. Overnight stay at Gangtok. Day 07: Excursion to Tsomgo Lake & Baba Mandir After breakfast start for an excursion to 1 Tsomgo Lake (12,400 ft.) & Baba Mandir (13,200 ft.) which is 55 kms one way from Gangtok city. Overnight stay at Gangtok. (In case of Land slide or any other reason Tsomgo Lake is closed we will provided alternate sightseeing.) Day 08: Gangtok / Bagdogra After breakfast Check-out and drive to Bagdogra Airport to board the flight for onward journey. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years SILVER 3* 34500 31000 26000 37000 10500 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner. Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax Skyway International Travels 152 Darjeeling Tour Bagdogra / Gangtok / Darjeeling / Bagdogra 5 Nights / 6 Days Day 01:  drive Bagdogra / Darjeeling Bagdogra Airport and Meet on arrival at to Darjeeling (6,950 ft.). On arrival Check-in to hotel & rest of the day at leisure. Overnight stay at Darjeeling. Day 02: Darjeeling Sightseeing Early Morning (at 04:00 am) drive to Tiger hill (8,400 ft.) to watch the spectacular sunrise over Mt. Khangchendzongha (28,208 ft. Worlds 3rd highest peak), on your way back visit Ghoom Monastery and Batasia Loop. After breakfast visit Himalayan Mountaineering Institute, P.N. Zoological Park (Thursday closed), Tenzing Rock, Tibetan Refugee self-help Centre (Sunday closed), Tea Garden (outer view), Ropeway and Japanese Temple. Evening free for shopping or leisure. Overnight stay at Darjeeling. Day 03: Darjeeling – Kalimpong (57 kms / 2 ½ hrs) Sightseeing After Breakfast transfer to Kalimpong (3,950 ft.). On arrival Check-in to your hotel. Afternoon enjoy half day tour of Kalimpong Visit Mangal Dham, Deolo Hill, Dr. Graham's Home, Golf Garden, Durpin Dara Hills & Pine View Nursery. Overnight stay at Kalimpong. Day 04: Kalimpong / Gangtok After breakfast transfer to Gangtok (5,500 ft.). On arrival check-in to your hotel. Afternoon proceed for a half day city tour visiting Flower show, Cottage Industry and Handicraft Centre, Institute of Tibetology, Dro-dul Chorten, Enchey Monastery & Banjakhri Falls (maximum 3-4 hours). Overnight stay at Gangtok.  Day 05: Excursion to Tsomgo Lake & Baba Mandir After breakfast start for an excursion to Tsomgo Lake (12,400 ft.) & Baba Mandir (13,200 ft.) which is 55 kms one way from Gangtok city. Overnight stay at Gangtok. (In case of Land slide or any other reason Tsomgo Lake is closed we will provided alternate sightseeing.) Day 06: Gangtok / Bagdogra After breakfast Check-out and drive to Bagdogra Airport to board the flight for onward journey. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years 24500 19000 SILVER 3* 18000 26500 8250 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax 16 Skyway International Travels3 Cherrapunji Tour Guwahati / Cherrapunji / Guwhati 4 Nights / 5 Days Day 01: Guwahati Airport / Rly Station – Shillong Meet on arrival at Guwahati Airport / Railway Station & transfer to Shillong (4,900 ft.), called 'Scotland of the East" (100 kms 3 hrs). Enroute visit Umium Lake, a majestic placid lake with its surrounding sylvan hills. On arrival at Shillong, check in at your hotel. Overnight stay at Shillong. Day 02: Excursion to Cherrapunji After early breakfast drive to Cherrapunjee (4,400 ft.), the wettest place in the world. You will see the beautiful waterfall known as Nohkalikai. You can also explore the caves known as Mawsmai. Evening return to Shillong, enroute visit Elephanta falls and Shillong peak for some breathtaking views. Overnight stay at Shillong. Day 03: Shillong Sightseeing – Guwahati After breakfast visit Don Bosco Museum & Ward's Lake. After that drive to Guwahati. Arrive and check in at hotel. In the evening visit 'Kalakshetra', a place where Assamese history and culture is presented through Light and sound show. Return to hotel. Overnight stay at Guwahati. Day 04: Guwahati Local Sightseeing After breakfast out to visit Kamakhya Temple, Tirupati Balaji Temple, Nabagraha Temple, Assam State Museum, State Zoo cum Botanical Garden, Regional Science Centre and Sukreswar Temple (The 6th Jyotirlinga of Shiva). Afternoon we suggest an optional tour of Golden sunset cruise on the Brahmaputra (Direct Payment by own). Overnight stay at Guwahati. Day 05: Guwahati Airport / Rly Station After breakfast check out from hotel & transfer to Guwahati Airport / Railway Station for your onward journey. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years 19000 14700 SILVER 3* 16000 22200 6750 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax Skyway International Travels 174 Kaziranga & Cherrapunji Tour Guwahati / Kaziranga National Park / Shillong / Cherrapunji / Guwahati 5 Nights / 6 Days Day 01: Guwahati  / Kaziranga National Park Meet on arrival at Guwahati Airport and drive to Kaziranga National Park, the home for the Single Horned Rhinoceros”. On arrival check into Hotel / Resort. Evening free for leisure. Overnight. Day 02: Kaziranga National Park Morning breakfast proceed for Jeep Safari. Back to hotel. Lunch and visit the nearby villages to experience the rural lifestyle. Overnight. Day 03: Kaziranga National Park / Shillong Morning breakfast checkout and proceed for Shillong - is the capital of Meghalaya, one of the smallest states in India and home to the Khasis. On arrival check into Hotel. Evening free for leisure. Overnight. Day 04: Shillong / Cherrapunji / Shillong Early proceed to Cherrapunji, the wettest place on earth. Visit Shillong Peak, Nohkalikai Falls - is the tallest plunge waterfall in India. The waterfall is located near Cherrapunji, one of the wettest places on Earth., Mawsmai Caves - near Cherrapunji is an experience in itself, the limestone. The caves (there are more than one) are situated 6km away from Cherrapunji. Back to hotel. Overnight. Day 05: Shillong / Guwahati Morning breakfast, checkout and drive to Guwahati – is the cosmopolitan city in the region, The city is located in the country's northeastern state of Assam and lies idly on the banks of the mighty Brahmaputra River at the foothills of the Shillong Plateau. On arrival check into Hotel. Relax and later proceed to visit Kamakhya Temple - is a Hindu temple dedicated to the mother goddess Kamakhya, one of the oldest of the 51 Shakti Pithas, situated on the Nilachal Hill in western part of Guwahati city in Assam. Back to hotel. Overnight. Day 06: Guwahati Morning breakfast checkout and drop to Guwahati Airport to board the flight for onward journey. Tour Ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years 25000 18500 SILVER 3* 19000 25500 8500 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax 18 Skyway International Travels5 Jewel of East Guwahati / Bhalukpong / Bomdila / Tawang / Dirang / Nameri / Guwahati 7 Nights / 8 Days Day 01: Guwahati Airport / Rly station - Bhalukpong Meet and greet on arrival at Guwahati Airport / Railway Station and transfer to Bhalukpong. On arrival check in to the hotel. Evening is free for leisure. Overnight stay at Bhalukpong. Day 02: Bhalukpong / Bomdila Early morning after breakfast check out from hotel and transfer to Bomdila (8,200 ft.) - the headquarter of West Kameng District of Arunachal Pradesh and also known for its Buddhist monasteries. It has a lot of attractions for the visitors for its cool climate. En-route visit Tipi Orchidarium a place over 500 orchids, on display there are some rare species of orchid. Arunachal has largest range of orchids in the country then take a break to visit Nag Temple. On Arrival Check in to the hotel. Evening is free for leisure. Overnight stay at Bomdila. Day 03: Bomdila / Tawang After breakfast check out from hotel and visit Bomdila Monastery. After that proceed to Tawang (11,500 ft.). – the land of Monpa Tribes & major centre of the Mahayana Buddhists. On the way to Tawang lies the world's second highest pass – Sela Pass (13700ft) which run through a small ridge & along a lake called Sela Lake and visit Jaswant Garh, a memorial to the brave soldier who single handily tried to hold of approaching Chinese from the pass during the 1962 Indo-Chinese war. On arrival check in at your hotel. Overnight stay at Tawang. Day 04: Tawang Sightseeing After breakfast visit Tawang Monstery, Pankang Teng Tso Lake (PT Tso Lake) & War Memorial. Evening free. Overnight stay at Tawang. Day 05: Tawang / Dirang After breakfast proceed to Dirang (4,910 ft.). On the way enjoy the beauty and majesty of Nuranng Water Fall. Dirang is famous for hot water springs where people take bath to cure skin ailments. Places worth visiting here are the Apple & Kiwi Garden depends upon season, Dirang Monastery and Kalachakra Monastery.  Overnight stay at Dirang. Day 06: Dirang / Nameri After Breakfast transfer to Nameri National Park – a tiger reserve and also famous for some Bird species. On arrival at Nameri check in to Eco camp. Afternoon you can explore nearby area of Nameri Eco Camp. Evening is free for leisure. Overnight stay at Nameri. Day 07: Nameri / Guwahati After Breakfast transfer to Guwahati. On Arrival Check in at your hotel. In the evening visit 'Kalakshetra', a place where Assamese history and culture is presented through Light and sound show. Overnight stay at Guwahati. Day 08: Guwahati Airport / Rly Station After breakfast visit Kamakhya Temple, etc. Transfer to Guwahati Airport / Railway Station for your onward journey. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years 34000 29500 SILVER 3* 24500 36500 12000 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax Skyway International Travels 196 Heritage of Odisha Bhubaneshwar / Puri  - Ratnagiri - Bhitarkanika / Bhubaneshwar 3 Nights / 4 Days Day 01: Bhubaneshwar Meet & Greet on arrival at Bhubaneswar Airport / Railway Station and transfer to Puri. In the evening visit the Lord Jagannath Temple built in 15th Century AD and crowned with Vishnu's wheel & flag dominate the landscape at Puri. Overnight stay will be at Puri. Day 02: Puri / Konark After Breakfast visit Chandra Bhaga Beach, Konark Sun Temple, Pipili (the eplique village), Dhauli, Lingaraj temple, Udaygiri & Khandagiri. Evening free for shopping at Sea side where you can get some unique ornaments & showpieces made by Shell. Overnight stay will be at Puri. Day 03: Bhitarkanika After breakfasts proceed to Ratnagiri ( 100kms/ 2hrs) Visit Ratnagiri- Udayagiri- caves and proceed to Bhitakanika, On arrival check in to Hotel. Day 04: Bhubaneshwar Morning after breakfast checkout from the hotel and  drive to Bhubaneshwar and drop to Airport / Rly Station. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years 23500 14000 SILVER 3* 16500 20200 3250 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax 20 Skyway International Travels7 Odisha Package Bhubaneshwar / Konark / Puri – Chilika / Bhubaneshwar 4 Nights / 5 Days Day 01: Bhubaneswar Meet & Greet on arrival at Bhubaneswar Airport / Railway Station & transfer to Puri. In the evening visit the Lord Jagannath Temple built in 15th Century AD and crowned with Vishnu's wheel & flag dominate the landscape at Puri. Overnight stay will be at Puri. Day 02: Excursion to Chilika Lake After breakfast start for day excursion to Chilika Lake (Place called Satpada). It's famous for Irrawaddy Dolphins. One can enjoy boating at Satpada (at own cost) and visit the lagoon where the lake meets with into Bay of Bengal. Evening back to Puri. Overnight stay will be at Puri. Day 03: Puri / Bhubaneswar (Enroute sightseeing) After Breakfast transfer to Bhubaneswar enroute visit Chandra Bhaga Sea Beach, Konark Sun Temple, Pipili (the eplique village) & Dhauli. On arrival check in to hotel. Evening free for leisure. Overnight stay will be at Bhubaneswar. Day 04: Bhubaneswar Sightseeing After breakfast visit Khandagiri, Udaygiri, Lingraj Temple & Nandan Kanan. Evening you can enjoy shopping at Ekaamra Haat buying local handicrafts and other goodies. Overnight stay will be at Bhubaneswar. Day 05: Bhubaneswar After breakfast Check-out from hotel, transfer to Bhubaneswar Airport / Railway Station for your onwards journey. Tour ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years 19500 15000 SILVER 3* 16000 20500 4250 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax Skyway International Travels 218 Assam Despatch Cruise 2- Rhinos and More (upstream) Guwahati to Silghat 7 Nights / 8 Days Day 01: Meet at Guwahati airport and taken on a short sightseeing tour of the city. Drive up Nilachal Hill to see the holy Kamakhya temple. With its tantric rites and animal sacrifice, the more squeamish may prefer to content themselves with the exterior. Visit the poignant Commonwealth War Graves cemetery before embarking on your cruise vessel. We set sail and cruise for about an hour and a half upstream to Kurua on the north bank. Day 02: The day is spent mostly cruising upstream with jungle-covered hills rising on either side, often battling against strong currents. We have time though to pause and visit the north bank village of Khirakata, with its lush green fields of vegetables and corn. Day 03: Leaving the hills behind, we enjoy our first taste of the wilderness experience, sand banks like icebergs on either side. We visit Tullugaon, another bankside village with large sugarcane plantations. We shall see weavers at work in their homes, as well as the production of jaggery out of sugar can juice. We moor for the night in a lunar landscape of sand islands, with hopefully the Himalayas in view and providing a contrasting backdrop in the distance. Day 04: We cruise on to reach Tezpur, where after lunch we visit the 6th century Da Parbatia temple ruins with a beautifully carved portal, then explore the town by cycle rickshaw, stopping at Cole Park with medieval stone carvings saved from sites all over the region, and passing the bungalow once lived in by Alexander Bruce, pioneer of the tea industry. Our ship will be waiting at the town's waterfront for us to reboard. Day 05: After an early breakfast we drive for some two hours to the Nameri National Park at the foot of the blue hills of Arunachal Pradesh, the old North East Frontier Agency. Here we take a float trip of around two hours duration down the Jia Bhoreli River through the park, with excellent birdwatching (look out for the great hornbills) and perhaps the chance of sighting wild elephant. After lunch we take a village walk before returning to the ship. Day 06: We continue upstream, passing below a seemingly endless new bridge across the vast width of the river bed, to moor at Steemer Ghat (sic), a lovely beach backed by jungle-covered hills. In the afternoon we drive to Kaziranga's Western Range for a jeep safari and to scan the wilderness from an observation tower. Kaziranga is a World Heritage site and with a population of well over 1000 rhinoceros is the best place in the world to see these beasts. There are also good populations of tiger, wild elephant, sambar, swamp deer, hog deer, wild pig and many other species. Day 07: Disembark pre-dawn and drive to Kaziranga's Central Range for an early morning elephant ride, the best way to get really close to the rhino and other animals. After breakfast at a lodge, we drive to a Mising tribal village, their distinctive houses raised on piles, then visit a nearby tea garden to see how tea is grown and processed (the factory though will be inoperative between December and mid-March). After lunch either take a jeep safari in the little visited Eastern Range before returning to the boat, or if preferred return directly to Steemer Ghat, visit a delightful Assamese village nearby and walk along a path alive with butterflies to a solitary temple on the river bank. Day 08: An early start for the 4 hour drive back to Guwahati airport, or alternatively we can arrange 40 minute transfer to Tezpur airport or 2 ½ hr transfer to Jorhat airport. Itinerary subject to river conditions. Elephant rides subject to availability. Kaziranga National Park contains low-lying grassland which may not be able to visit when the river is at or near flood level. Fixed Departures: th 18- 25 Mar 2017   Guwahati - Kaziranga nd 15- 22 Apr 2017   Guwahati - Kaziranga nd 25- 2  Dec 2017   Guwahati - Kaziranga th 23- 30 Dec 2017   Guwahati - Kaziranga th 17- 24 Feb 2018   Guwahati - Kaziranga th 17- 24 Mar 2018   Guwahati - Kaziranga st 14- 21 Apr 2018   Guwahati - Kaziranga PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years 99750 99750 SILVER 3* 99750 55000 24500 Free Includes: • • • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Guwahati - airport or railway station included Kaziranga - Jorhat or Guwahati airports included (AD4a, AD4b, lodge to ship or vv only) Dibrugarh - Jorhat or Dibrugarh airports included Excludes: • • • • Drinks from the bar, Laundry, Tips, Camera fee Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax 22 Skyway International Travels9 Assam Despatch Cruise 7 Brahmaputra Taster - Guwahati to Guwahati 4 Nights / 5 Days Day 01: Meet at Guwahati airport and embark on ABN Charaidew mid-afternoon close to the great Saraighat Bridge. Cruise downstream to an overnight stop close to the south bank village of Viajynagar. Day 02: After breakfast, disembark and explore a riverside village on foot. Cruise upstream to the little town of Sualkuchi, loud with the clatter of looms, and visit on foot its silk weaving workshops. We shall see the whole process of silk manufacture, from cocoon to spinning to dyeing and finally to hand weaving into exquisite saris and dress lengths. We then drive on to Hajo, a place sacred to Hindus, Muslims and Buddhists. We visit a hilltop Muslim shrine with far-reaching views over the surrounding rural landscape, as well as the simple Hindu temple with its frieze of elephants and its sacred tank full of great carp, catfish and turtles. Later we reboard and cruise to an overnight mooring near the Saraighat War Memorial. Day 03: Cruising upstream, we disembark at Pandu docks and are taken on a short sightseeing tour of the city of Guwahati. Drive up Nilachal Hill to see the holy Kamakhya temple. With its tantric rites and animal sacrifice, the more squeamish may prefer to content themselves with the exterior. Visit the poignant Commonwealth War Graves cemetery as well as a high-class shop selling local crafts. Cross by country boat to the midstream Peacock Island with its population of Golden Langur monkeys before re- embarking and cruising for about an hour and a half upstream to Kurua on the north bank. Day 04: Cruise upstream past jungle-covered hills, and turn into the Mayong River. We cruise up in our country boat for a kilometre or two to the roadhead from where we drive to the Pobitora Wildlife Sanctuary. This small park has a dense population of the Asian One-Horned Rhinoceros, and we shall be unlucky if we do not spot some of these amazing armoured beasts on a jeep safari around the park. Those departing today are picked up from the park and driven c.4 ½ hrs to Kaziranga National Park. Alternatively,returning to the ship in the afternoon we cruise to a riverside village which we explore on foot before sailing down to spend the last night close to the picturesque Aswaklanta Temple on the North bank opposite Guwahati. Day 05: Cruise down to the Saraighat Bridge. Disembark after breakfast and transfer to Guwahati airport for final departure. Itinerary dependent on river conditions. Elephant rides subject to availability. Fixed Departure Dates: th 14 - 18 Mar 2017 Guwahati - Guwahati th 11 - 15 Apr 2017 Guwahati - Guwahati th 21 - 25 Nov 2017 Guwahati - Guwahati rd 19 - 23 Dec 2017 Guwahati - Guwahati th 16 - 20 Jan 2018 Guwahati - Guwahati th 13 - 17 Feb 2018 Guwahati - Guwahati th 10 - 14 Apr 2018 Guwahati - Guwahati PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years 57000 58000 SILVER 3* 58000 32000 15000 Free Includes: • • • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Guwahati - airport or railway station included Kaziranga - Jorhat or Guwahati airports included (AD4a, AD4b, lodge to ship or vv only) Dibrugarh - Jorhat or Dibrugarh airports included Excludes: • • • • Drinks from the bar, Laundry, Tips, Camera fee Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax Skyway International Travels 23CENTRAL INDIA 1 Madhya Pradesh Heritage Bhopal / Sanchi / Ujjain / Indore / Mandu /Maheshwar / Indore 7 Nights/ 8 Days Day 01: Bhopal: Meet on arrival at Bhopal Airport and  transfer to Hotel. Relax and later proceed to visit the delights of Bhopal, Bharat Museum, Taj-UL-Masjid and Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Manav Sangrahalaya. Back to hotel.  Overnight. Day 02: Bhopal / Sanchi / Bhopal Morning breakfast and proceed for day visit to Sanchi and Bhimbetka. Sanchi is one of the popular pilgrimage destinations for Buddhists in India. Also witness enormous stupas and museum that grab attention of tourists from around the world. Thereafter, proceed to Bhimbetka rock caves, which are for its magnificent sketches and paintings dating back to the pre-historic times. Back to hotel.  Overnight. Day 03: Bhopal / Ujjain / Indore Breakfast checkout and drive to Indore enroute,  visit Ujjain -  some of its famous temples such as Kaliadeh Palace, Bade Ganeshji Ka Mandir, Gopal Mandir, Kal Bhairava, Navagarha Mandir and Mahakaleshwar Temple and dip in the spritualtiy to get peace to our soul, mind and body. Later drive to Indore. On arrival check into Hotel.  Overnight. Day 04: Indore / Mandu Early breakfast checkout and drive to Mandu. On arrival check into Hotel.  Later proceed for sightseeing visit Jahaz Mahal (Ship Palace), Hoshang's Tomb, the Rupmati's Pavilion, Ashrafi Mahal and Hindola Mahal (Swing Palace) Back to hotel.  Overnight. Day 05: Mandu / Maheshwar: Breakfast checkout and drive to Maheshwar, enroute visit Omkareshwar, a famous pilgrim center and house one of the 12 jyotirlingas of Lord Shiva. Later drive to  Maheshwar - situated on the banks of Narmada river, Maheshwar is a renowned temple town that is visited by pilgrims from across the globe. It was the capital of the Malwa during the Maratha Holkar supremacy till 1818, when the capital was shifted by Malhar Rao Holkar III to Indore. Later check into Hotel.  Overnight. Day 06: Maheshwar / Indore: Breakfast checkout and drive to Indore.  On arrival check into Hotel.  Relax and later proceed for sightseeing visit temples, Rajwada Palace, Lal Bagh palace, Lalbagh Museum, Kishanpura Cenotaphs, Zoological park, Khajarana temple etc. Overnight. Day 07: Indore: Breakfast checkout and transfer to Indore Airport to board the flight for onward destination. Tour Ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years SILVER 3* 26800 23500 25000 36000 4900 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner. Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax 24 Skyway International Travels2






Spiritual Madhya Pradesh Indore / Ujjain / Maheshwar / Mandu / Indore 4 Nights / 5 Days Day 01: Indore Meet on arrival at Indore Airport and transfer to Hotel.  Relax and proceed for sightseeing visit temples, Rajwada Palace, Lal Bagh palace, Lalbagh Museum, Kishanpura Cenotaphs, Zoological park, Khajarana temple etc. Overnight. Day 02: Indore / Ujjain Morning breakfast checkout and drive to Ujjain - This town of Kalidasa features its prime in his most-loved composition, Meghdoot. This is also Lord Shiva's ground, where, as the presiding deity, he reigns supreme in one of the 12 jyotirlingas. Visit Mahakaleshwar Temple & Kaal Bhairav. Back to hotel. Overnight. Day 03: Ujjain / Omkareshwar / Maheshwar Breakfast checkout and drive to Maheshwar, enroute visit Omkareshwar, a famous pilgrim center and house one of the 12 jyotirlingas of Lord Shiva. Later drive to  Maheshwar - situated on the banks of Narmada river, Maheshwar is a renowned temple town that is visited by pilgrims from across the globe. It was the capital of the Malwa during the Maratha Holkar supremacy till 1818, when the capital was shifted by Malhar Rao Holkar III to Indore. Later check into Hotel.  Overnight. Day 04: Maheshwar / Mandu Breakfast checkout and drive to Mandu. On arrival check into Hotel.  Later proceed for sightseeing visit Jahaz Mahal (Ship Palace), Hoshang's Tomb, the Rupmati's Pavilion, Ashrafi Mahal and Hindola Mahal (Swing Palace) Back to hotel.  Overnight. Day 05: Mandu / Indore Breakfast checkout and drive to Indore. On arrival drop to Indore Airport to board the flight for onward destination.  Tour Ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years 22750 18500 SILVER 3* 16500 26000 4400 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax Skyway International Travels 253 Bhopal Package 1 Bhopal / Pachmari /Bhopal 4 Nights / 5 Days Day 01: Bhopal Meet on arrival at Bhopal Airport and transfer to Hotel. Relax and Overnight. Day 02: Bhopal / Sanchi / Bhopal Morning breakfast and proceed for day visit to Sanchi and Bhimbetka. Sanchi is one of the popular pilgrimage destinations for Buddhists in India. Also witness enormous stupas and museum that grab attention of tourists from around the world. Thereafter, proceed to Bhimbetka rock caves, which are for its magnificent sketches and paintings dating back to the pre-historic times. Back to hotel.  Overnight. Day 03: Bhopal / Pachmarhi Breakfast checkout and drive to Pachmarhi. On arrival check into Hotel.  Relax and later proceed for sightseeing visit Bee Fall, Fairy Pool, Handi Khoh and Dhoopgarh. In the evening, you can visit the Padmini Lake and enjoy boating, horse ride or camel ride. Back to hotel.  Overnight. Day 04: Pachmarhi / Bhopal Morning breakfast checkout and drive to Bhopal.  On arrival check into Hotel.  Relax and later proceed to visit the delights of Bhopal, Bharat Museum, TajUL-Masjid and Indira Gandhi Rashtriya Manav Sangrahalaya. Back to hotel.  Overnight. Day 05: Bhopal Breakfast checkout and drive to Bhopal.  On arrival drop to Airport to board the flight for onward destination.  Tour Ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years 23000 19500 SILVER 3* 20000 25500 4500 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax 26 Skyway International Travels4 Bhopal Package 2 Jabalapur / Satpura National Park / Pachmarhi / Bandhavagarh / Jabalapur 6 Nights / 7 Days Day 01: Jabalapur Meet on arrival at Jabalapur Airport and transfer to Hotel. Relax and Overnight. Day 02: Jabalapur / Satpura National park Breakfast checkout and drive to Satpura.  On arrival check into Hotel. Later proceed for safari. Back to hotel.  Overnight. Day 03: Satpura National Park / Pachmarhi Breakfast checkout and drive to Pachmarhi. On arrival check into Hotel.  Relax and overnight. Day 04: Pachmarhi Breakfast and proceed to explore Pachmarhi. It is a popular tourist retreat, being surrounded by beautiful forests, breathtaking waterfalls and serene pools.  Later in the day visit the Rajat Pratap waterfall. In the evening proceed to Dhupgarh, the highest point in the Satpura range to witness the mesmerizing sunset. Return to the hotel for dinner and overnight stay. Day 05: Pachmarhi / Bandhavagarh Breakfast checkout and drive to Bandhavagarh. On arrival check into Hotel.  Relax and overnight. Day 06: Bandhavagarh After breakfast, drive to Bandhavgarh National Park, the former hunting grounds of the Maharaja of Rewa, popular for housing a high density of tiger population. Once you reach, check-in at your jungle lodge. The evening is scheduled for a safari into the park. You may spot animal species like Panther, Spotted Deer, Sambhar deer, Nilgai (Blue bull), Gaur, Wild Boar along with around 280 species of birds. Overnight in the lodge. Day 07: Bandhavagarh / Jabalapur Breakfast checkout and drive to Jabalapur. On arrival drop to Airport to board the flight for onward destination.  Tour Ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years 13500 10500 SILVER 3* 26500 38500 16000 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with all meals and taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • Safari charges • • • Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax Skyway International Travels 275 Khajuraho & Orchha Khajuraho / Orchha / Gwalior 2 Nights / 3 Days Day 01 : Khajuraho Meet on arrival at Khajuraho Airport and proceed for sightseeing.  Depending upon the arrival time proceed for sightseeing visit to Khajuraho's famous temples, all of them are built with intricacy and is ancient.  Later check into Hotel.  Overnight. Day 02: Khajuraho / Orchha Breakfast checkout and drive to Orchha.  On arrival check into Hotel.  Local sightseeing visit Jehangir Mahal, Sunder Mahal, Cenotaphs, Raja Ram Temple, Laxminarayan Temple and the Phool Bagh. Back to hotel.  Overnight. Day 03: Orchha / Gwalior Breakfast checkout and drive to Gwalior.  On arrival drop to Gwalior Airport to board the flight for onward destination.  Tour Ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years 11500 8500 SILVER 3* 9500 13500 2200 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax 28 Skyway International Travels6 Wild Madhya Pradesh Jabalpur/ Bandhavgarh / Kanha/ Pench/ Nagpur 6 Nights / 7 Days Day 01: Jabalpur / Bandhavgarh Meet on arrival at Jabalpur airport and drive to Bandhavgarh National Park. Upon arrival check into the wildlife resort. Evening free to have a talk with the naturalist about the Bandhavgarh National Park. Dinner & overnight stay at hotel. Day 02: Bandhavgarh Morning & afternoon jungle safari to the national park for Tiger tracking. Overnight stay at jungle lodge. Day 03 : Bandhavgarh / Kanha National Park Morning jungle safari to the national park for wildlife viewing. Later after breakfast at the resort drive to Kanha National Park. On arrival check in at wildlife resort. Overnight stay at resort. Day 04 : Kanha National Park Morning & afternoon jungle safari to the national park for Tiger tracking. Overnight stay at jungle lodge. Day 05 : Kanha / Pench National Park After an early breakfast leave for Pench Natioanl Park. Upon arrival check into the wildlife resort. After lunch jungle safari to the national park for wildlife viewing. Overnight stay at resort. Day 06 : Pench National Park Morning & afternoon jungle safari to the national park for wildlife viewing. Overnight stay at jungle lodge. Day 07: Pench National Park – Nagpur Morning checkout and transfer to Nagpur Airport to board the flight for onward destination,  Tour Ends.. PRICING NO OF GUEST 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons TOUR COST PER PERSON 58000 53000 SILVER 3* (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years 51000 62500 17500 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with all meals and taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • Safari charges • • • Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax Skyway International Travels 29WEST INDIA 1 Gujarat Package 1 Jamnagar / Dwarka / Somnath / Rajkot 4 Nights/ 5 Days Day 01: Jamnagar Meet on arrival at Jamnagar Airport and transfer to hotel. Relax and in the evening visit Bala Hanuman Temple known for its nonstop Ramdhun since 1956 and it mentioned in Guinness Book of World Records. Back to hotel. Overnight. Day 02: Jamnagar / Dwarka Breakfast checkout and drive to Dwarka.  On arrival check into Hotel. Later proceed to visit Dwarkadeesh Temple. Take a holy dip in Gomti river, later leave to visit Nageshwar Jyotirling, Gopi Talav, Bet Dwarka, and on way back do visit Rukmani Temple, evening visit other temples on coastal area, attend evening aarti at Dwarkadish temple. Overnight. Day 03: Dwarka / Porbandar – Somnath Morning breakfast checkout and drive to Somnath enroute visit Porbandar visit Kirti Mandir – the place where Gandhiji was born. Later proceed to Somnath, On arrival check into Hotel. Later proceed to visit Bhalka Tirth, Triveni Ghat & Somnath Temple. In the evening attend Aarti and later watch light and Sound show. Overnight. Day 04: Somnath/Virpur-Gondal/ Rajkot Breakfast checkout and drive to Rajkot, enroute visit Jalaram Temple at Virpur and Swaminarya temple, Navlakha Palace and Vintage Car museum at Gondal. On arrival at Rajkot, check into hotel. Overnight. Day 05: Rajkot Breakfast checkout and transfer to Airport to board the flight for onward destination.  Tour Ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years SILVER 3* 21000 14200 16500 22500 2200 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner. Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax 30 Skyway International Travels2 Gujarat Package 2 Ahmedabad / Jamnagar / Dwarka / Somnath / Gir National Park/ Diu 6 Nights/ 7 Days Day 01: Ahmedabad Meet on arrival at Ahmedabad Airport and transfer to hotel. Depending upon the arrival time proceed for sightseeing visit  Gandhi Ashram next to the banks of the River Sabarmati & Akshardham Temple. Back to hotel.  Overnight. Day 02: Ahmedabad / Jamnagar Breakfast checkout and drive to Jamnagar. On arrival check into Hotel. Relax and evening visit Bala Hanuman Temple known for its nonstop Ramdhun since 1956 and it mentioned in Guinness Book of World Records. Back to hotel. Overnight. Day 03 : Jamnagar / Dwarka Breakfast checkout and drive to Dwarka.  On arrival check into Hotel. Later proceed to visit Dwarkadeesh Temple. Take a holy dip in Gomti river, later leave to visit Nageshwar Jyotirling, Gopi Talav, Bet Dwarka, and on way back do visit Rukmani Temple, evening visit other temples on coastal area, attend evening aarti at Dwarkadish temple. Overnight. Day 04 : Dwarka / Porbandar/ Somnath: Morning breakfast checkout and drive to Somnath enroute visit Porbandar visit Kirti Mandir – the place where Gandhiji was born. Later proceed to Somnath, On arrival check into Hotel. Later proceed to visit Bhalka Tirth, Triveni Ghat & Somnath Temple. In the evening attend Aarti and later watch light and Sound show. Overnight. Day 05: Somnath/ Gir National Park Breakfast checkout and drive to Gir National Park. It is the famed place for Lion sightseeing and is well acknowledged as the only forest reserve in Asia for housing wild Lions,. Other animal species include the Sambhar, Spotted Deer, Nilgai and the Chausingha (the world's only four-horned antelope) can also be spotted in the forest. Even crocodiles can be seen in the reservoir and rivers flowing through the sanctuary. In the afternoon, we will go for a jungle safari in the National Park. Overnight. Day 06: Gir / Diu Breakfast checkout and drive to Daman & Diu On arrival check into the hotel. The rest of the day is free for leisure or to spend at the beaches of Daman & Diu. Overnight. Day 07: Diu Breakfast checkout and transfer to Diu Airport to board the flight for onward destination.  Tour Ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years Includes: TOUR COST PER PERSON SILVER 3* 27500 21000 20000 32500 3300 Free • • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Accommodation with all meals and taxes at Gir National Park Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • Lunch and Dinner. • Safari charges • • • Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax Skyway International Travels 313 Gir & Somnath Tour Rajkot / Gir National Park / Somnath / Diu 4 Nights/ 5 Days Day 01: Rajkot Meet on arrival at Rajkot Airport and transfer to Hotel.  Relax and overnight. Day 02: Rajkot / Gir National Park Breakfast checkout and drive to Gir National Park. It is the famed place for Lion sightseeing and is well acknowledged as the only forest reserve in Asia for housing wild Lions,. Other animal species include the Sambhar, Spotted Deer, Nilgai and the Chausingha (the world's only four-horned antelope) can also be spotted in the forest. Even crocodiles can be seen in the reservoir and rivers flowing through the sanctuary. In the afternoon, we will go for a jungle safari in the National Park. Overnight. Day 03: Gir National Park / Somnath Breakfast checkout and drive to Somnath, On arrival check into Hotel.  Later proceed to visit Bhalka Tirth, Triveni Ghat & Somnath Temple. In the evening attend Aarti and later watch light and Sound show. Overnight. Day 04: Somnath / Diu Breakfast checkout and drive to Daman & Diu On arrival check into the hotel. The rest of the day is free for leisure or to spend at the beaches of Daman & Diu. Overnight. Day 05: Diu Breakfast checkout and transfer to Diu Airport to board the flight for onward destination.  Tour Ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years Includes: TOUR COST PER PERSON SILVER 3* 19500 15000 16500 21500 2200 Free • • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Accommodation with all meals and taxes at Gir National Park Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • Lunch and Dinner • Safari charges • • • Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax





Ajanta, Ellora & Aurangabad Aurangabad – Ajanta - Ellora / Aurangabad 3 Nights/ 4 Days Day 01:  Aurangabad Meet on arrival at Aurangabad Airport and transfer to hotel. Relax and later proceed for City tour of Aurangabad. Overnight. Day 02: Aurangabad -  Ajanta Caves Breakfast and proceed for full day Excursion to Ajanta – (closed on Monday) These 2nd century caves are fine achievements by Buddhist monks. Beautiful frescoes, wall paintings and vivid sculptures reflect the peak of ancient Indian art and architecture. The horseshoe shaped gorge has 30 caves dividend in two phases. Return back to Hotel. Overnight. Day 03: Aurangabad - Ellora Caves - Pithalkora Breakfast and proceed for sightseeing of Ellora Caves (closed on Tuesday) - UNESCO World Heritage site, one of the finest examples of rockcut  caves , there are 34 caves, Cave 16 is the most famous and has Lord Shiva sculpted on the rocksthe largest monolith in the world. After Ellora Caves, further proceed for Pithalkora caves are about 78 kms, from Aurangabad. The intricate work on the sculptured facades in these caves is definitely worth a visit.  Return back to Hotel. Overnight. Day 04: Aurangabad Breakfast proceed to The Daulatabad fortress was an old Hindu stronghold originally called Devgiri Fort. Emperor Mohammed-bin-Tughlaq captured and plundered it in the 13th century and made it the second capital of the Delhi Sultanate renaming it Daulatabad. It is famous for its series of trick defences, secret escape routes etc. Bibi-kaMaqbara, built in memory of Aurangazeb's wife Rabia Durrani. Panchakki or Water Mill, an ingenious creation of Mughal engineers who used it to harness water to run large grinding stones which served as a flour mill. Later proceed to Airport to board the flight for onward destination.  Tour Ends PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years SILVER 3* 15500 10000 12250 19000 3250 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner. Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax Skyway International Travels 33Goa Package 1 5 4 Nights/ 5 Days Day 01: Goa Meet on arrival at Goa Airport and transfer to Hotel.  Relax near beach and overnight. Day 02: Goa Morning breakfast and proceed to visit  Old Goa, the most important Cathedrals and churches - namely Se-Cathedral, Church of St. Francis Xavier, St. Catherine's Church, Arch of vice Roy of Goa. Evening boat ride in Mandovi River. Overnight. Day 03: Goa: Full day enjoy near beach. Overnight. Day 04: Goa Full day enjoy near beach. Overnight. Day 05: Goa: Breakfast checkout and drive to Goa Airport to board the flight for onward destination.  Tour Ends., PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years SILVER 3* 18500 15000 13500 19500 4500 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner. Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax 34 Skyway International TravelsGoa Package 2 6 3 Nights/ 4 Days Day 01: Goa Meet on arrival at Goa Airport and transfer to Hotel.  Relax near beach and overnight. Day 02: Goa Morning breakfast and proceed to visit  Old Goa, the most important Cathedrals and churches - namely Se-Cathedral, Church of St. Francis Xavier, St. Catherine's Church, Arch of vice Roy of Goa. Evening boat ride in Mandovi River. Overnight. Day 03: Goa: Full day enjoy near beach. Overnight. Day 04: Goa: Breakfast checkout and drive to Goa Airport to board the flight for onward destination.  Tour Ends., PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years SILVER 3* 14800 11500 10500 15500 3500 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner. Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax Skyway International Travels 35Shirdi Package 7 Pune / Shirdi – Shingnapur / Pune 2 Nights/ 3 Days Day 01: Pune / Shirdi Meet on arrival at Pune Airport and drive to Shirdi. On arrival check into Hotel.  Relax and overnight. Day 02: Shirdi Morning breakfast and proceed to visit  Sai Baba Temple and Shani Shingnapur - It is an impressive village with the fact that no house in the village have door. The local villagers here believe that Lord Shaneshwara will save them from all evil. There is a temple of Lord Shaneshwara here with his large idol made of black stone. Overnight. Day 03: Shirdi / Pune Breakfast checkout and drive to Pune.  On arrival drop to Pune Airport to board the flight for onward destination.  Tour Ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years SILVER 3* 10000 7500 9000 11000 1500 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner. Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax 36 Skyway International Travels8 Shirdi, Nashik & Mumbai Package Pune / Shirdi – Shingnapur / Nashik / Mumbai 4 Nights / 5 Days Day 01: Pune / Shirdi Meet on arrival at Pune Airport and drive to Shirdi enroute visit Shani Shingnapur - It is an impressive village with the fact that no house in the village have door. The local villagers here believe that Lord Shaneshwara will save them from all evil. There is a temple of Lord Shaneshwara here with his large idol made of black stone. On arrival transfer to Hotel.  Relax and overnight. Day 02: Shirdi / Nashik Morning breakfast and visit  Sai Baba Temple.  Back to hotel, checkout and drive to Nashik.  On arrival check into Hotel. Later proceed to visit Sunder Narayan Temple, Sita Gupta Caves and Trimbakeshwar Temple. Back to hotel.  Overnight. Day 03: Nashik / Mumbai Breakfast checkout and drive to Mumbai.  On arrival check into Hotel.  Overnight. Day 04: Mumbai Breakfast and proceed for sightseeing visit Gateway of India, take a motorboat to visit Elephanta Caves, known for having a huge Trimurthi idol, a tripleheaded Shiva. You will visit the Hanging Gardens, Prince of Wales Museum, Parliament House, Jain Temple and Marine Drive. Back to hotel. Overnight. Day 05: Mumbai Breakfast checkout and transfer to Airport to board the flight for onward destination.  Tour Ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years SILVER 3* 19500 15500 17500 22000 4500 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner. Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax Skyway International Travels 3

Wine Tour 9 Nashik 2 Nights / 3 Days Day 01: Nashik Meet on arrival at Nashik Airport and transfer to hotel or to Vineyard. Overnight. Day 02: Nashik Full day Local sightseeing or visit to Vineyard.  Overnight. Day 03: Nashik Breakfast checkout and transfer to Airport to board the flight for onward destination.  Tour Ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years SILVER 3* 9000 7500 8500 12000 2500 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner. Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax 38 Skyway International TravelsSOUTH INDIA Exotic Coorg Bangalore / Coorg / Bangalore 3 Nights / 4 Days Day 01: Bangalore / Coorg - Madikeri Meet on arrival at Bangalore Airport / Railway station and drive to Coorg – Madikeri. On arrival check into resort, lunch & relax. Later proceed to visit Abbey falls-Tucked away between private coffee and spice estates, Abbey Falls offers a splendid backdrop for picnics. Madikeri Fort - The 19th century Madikeri fort with its stone ramparts now houses the prison, a temple, a chapel, a small museum, and assorted government offices, Omkareshwara Temple-Just a stone's throw away from the Madikeri Fort is the Omakareshwara Temple, built in 1820 and featuring a blend of red-tile roofed Kerela architecture and Islamicstyle domes. Evening visit Raja Seat- is an enchanting picnic spot with a swathing in the nature's lap. A visitor to this spot is sure to enjoy the marvelous sight of Sun set and gorgeous valley and mountain ranges. Musical fountain has been attracting a large number of visitors to the garden. Return to hotel and overnight. Day 02: Coorg - Madikeri Early breakfast proceed to Dubare elephant camp (to reach the place before 09.00Hrs) offer the 3 hour experience with Elephants consisting of elephant Grooming, feeding, elephant Ride & Coracle Ride,  later visit Cauvery Nisargadhama - is an island formed by river Cauvery and is used as a picnic spot island, with lush foliage of thick bamboo groves, sandalwood and teak trees and surrounded by the Cauvery river. The island is accessible through a hanging rope bridge. Lunch at Kushalnagar and later visit Bylakuppe - largest Tibetan settlement in South India. A beautiful Monastery with three large and imposing Golden Buddha statues and in a serene setting beckons you. The temple has 62 feet Buddha statues covered with gold plates is a wonderful sight anytime.  Back to Hotel.  Overnight. Day 03: Coorg - Madikeri Morning breakfast, proceed to visit Bhagamandala - situated at the confluence of two rivers, the Cauvery and the Kanika. A third river, the Sujyothi is said to join from underground. It is considered sacred as a river confluence, visit Talacauvery -  known as Dakshin 1 Kashi is the birthplace of river Cauvery at the foot of the breathtaking Brahmagiri Hills in Coorg. The river flows down inconspicuously as 'Guptagamini' from here before re-emerging a small distance downwards at Nagateerta. Cauvery's soulful journey starts unchecked from there where she would join the Kannike and Sujyoti rivers at the Triveni Sangama in Bhagamandala to flow further. Back to hotel.  Overnight. Day 04: Coorg – Madikeri / Bangalore Morning breakfast checkout and drive to Bangalore. On arrival drop to Airport / Railway station to board the Flight / Train for further destination. Tour Ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years SILVER 3* 13500 10500 9800 16500 2400 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner. Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax Skyway International Travels 392 Kerala Package 1 Cochin / Munnar / Thekkady / Alleppey – House Boat / Cochin 5 Nights / 6 Days Day 01: Cochin / Munnar  Meet on arrival at Cochin Airport and drive to Munnar - one of the most popular hill stations in India is situated at the confluence of three mountain streams. On arrival check into resort/hotel, lunch. Later on half day sightseeing, visit to Lock Heart Gap - This is an ideal place for adventure tourism and trekking. Echo Point - This scenic place gets its name from the natural echo phenomenon here. Echo Point is on the way to Top Station. Nyayamakad - is a land of breathtaking waterfalls. Return to resort/hotel, dinner and overnight Day 02: Munnar Morning breakfast and proceed to full day sightseeing, visit to Anayirankal - It's a lush green carpet of tea plants. Pothamedu - offers an excellent view of the tea, coffee and cardamom plantations in Munnar. Tea Museum - Munnar is perhaps the choicest of places to preserve and showcase some of the exquisite and interesting aspects on the genesis and growth of tea plantations in Kerala's high ranges. Return to resort/hotel, Overnight. Day 03: Munnar / Thekkady Morning breakfast, check out and proceed to Thekkady - The very sound of the word Thekkady conjures up images of elephants, unending chains of hills and spice scented plantations. Enroute to Thekkady visit to Powerhouse Waterfalls-cascades down a steep rock 200m above sea level. On arrival check into the resort/hotel. Lunch and relax. Later on visit to The Periyar Wildlife Sanctuary - situated on the banks of the Periyar Lake - an artificial lake, at Thekkady. Return to resort/hotel, dinner and overnight. Day 04: Thekkady / Alleppey Morning breakfast, check out and drive to Alleppey to board the House Boat. The Houseboat takes you around the backwaters of Kumarakom and Alleppey.  All meals on board the houseboat.  Overnight. Day 05: Alleppey / Cochin Morning breakfast Check out and drive to Cochin. On arrival check into Hotel. Relax and proceed to visit St. Francis Church - built completely of timber and later reconstructed in stone masonry, Pierce Leslie Bungalow - this charming mansion was the office of Pierce Leslie, this building reflects Portuguese, Dutch and l o c a l influences, Loafer's Corner/Princess Street - the traditional meeting place and hangout of the jovial fun loving people of the area. Return to hotel and overnight. Day 06:  Cochin Morning breakfast checkout and drive to Cochin Airport to board the flight for onward destination.  Tour Ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years SILVER 3* 24000 20000 18500 24500 5000 Free Includes: • • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Accommodation with all meals at Alleppey- House Boat Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner. Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax 40 Skyway International Travels3 Kerala Package 2 Trivandrum / Kovalam - Kanyakumari / Trivandrum 3 Nights / 4 Days Day 01: Trivandrum / Kovalam Meet on arrival at Trivandrum Airport and drive to Kovalam - is an internationally renowned beach with three adjacent crescent beaches. It has been a favorite haunt of tourists, on arrival transfer to a beach resort and rest of the day free. Overnight. Day 02: Kovalam / Kanyakumari / Kovalam Morning breakfast, proceed for a day visit to  Kanyakumari - the land's end of India or the point where the three seas meet, and later visit to Vivekananda Memorial - built on the Vivekananda Rock where the charismatic and philosopher Swami Vivekananda meditated and transformed himself. Return to Kovalam. Overnight. Day 03: Kovalam / Trivandrum Breakfast checkout and drive to Trivandrum.  On arrival check into Hotel.  Relax and later proceed to visit Sri Padmanabhaswamy Temple.  Overnight. Day 04: Trivandrum Breakfast checkout and transfer to Trivandrum airport to board the flight for onward destination.  Tour Ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years SILVER 3* 14500 10500 12500 17000 3250 Free Includes: • • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Accommodation with all meals at Alleppey- House Boat Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner. Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax Skyway International Travels 414 Kerala Delight Cochin / Munnar / Kumarakom / Alleppey / Cochin 5 Nights / 6 Days Day 01: Cochin / Munnar  Meet on arrival at Cochin Airport and drive to Munnar - one of the most popular hill stations in India is situated at the confluence of three mountain streams. On arrival check into hotel. Later proceed for half day sightseeing, visit to Lock Heart Gap - This is an ideal place for adventure tourism and trekking. Echo Point - This scenic place gets its name from the natural echo phenomenon here. Echo Point is on the way to Top Station. Nyayamakad - is a land of breathtaking waterfalls. Return to resort/hotel, dinner and overnight. Day 02: Munnar Morning breakfast and proceed to full day sightseeing, visit to Anayirankal - It's a lush green carpet of tea plants. Pothamedu - offers an excellent view of the tea, coffee and cardamom plantations in Munnar. Tea Museum - Munnar is perhaps the choicest of places to preserve and showcase some of the exquisite and interesting aspects on the genesis and growth of tea plantations in Kerala's high ranges. Return to resort/hotel, Overnight. Day 03: Munnar / Kumarakom Morning breakfast, checkout and drive to Kumarakom - an unbelievably beautiful paradise of mangrove forests, emerald green paddy fields and coconut groves interspersed with enchating waterways and canals adorned with white lilies.  Evening visit to Kumarakom Bird Sanctuary - An enchanting backwater destination, which is spread across 14 acres, is a favorite haunt of migratory birds and an ornithologist's paradise. Overnight. Day 04: Kumarkom / Alleppey Morning breakfast, check out and drive to Alleppey to board the House Boat. The Houseboat takes you around the backwaters of Kumarakom and Alleppey.  All meals on board the houseboat.  Overnight. Day 05: Alleppey / Cochin Morning breakfast Check out and drive to Cochin. On arrival check into Hotel. Relax and proceed to visit St. Francis Church - built completely of timber and later reconstructed in stone masonry, Pierce Leslie Bungalow - this charming mansion was the office of Pierce Leslie, this building reflects Portuguese, Dutch and local influences, Loafer's Corner /Princess Street - the traditional meeting place and hangout of the jovial fun loving people of the area. Return to hotel and overnight. Day 06:  Cochin Morning breakfast checkout and drive to Cochin Airport to board the flight for onward destination.  Tour Ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years SILVER 3* 25000 21000 18200 25500 5000 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner. Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax 42 Skyway International Travels5 Tirupati Package Bangalore / Tirupati / Bangalore 1 Night / 2 Days Day 01: Bangalore Pick up from Bangalore and drive to Tirpuathi, On arrival check into Hotel.  Later proceed for Darshan.  Overnight. Day 02: Tirupati / Bangalore: Morning breakfast checkout and proceed to visit Padmavathi Temple, later drive to Bangalore.  Tour Ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years SILVER 3* 8000 6000 6500 7500 600 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner. Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax Skyway International Travels 436 Lakshwadeep Package Cochin / Minicoy Island / Kalpeni Island / Kavaratti Island / Cochin (Package in Cruise) 4 Nights / 5 Days Day 01: Departure from Kochi Request to report First Floor, Lakshadweep Wharf and Passenger facilitation center at wellington island Kochi on Departure date. Boarding time will start 9:30 am to 11:00 am. Please be in patient while in queue for check in , All Passengers including children's mandatory to carry photo id cards .After the security check in you will be transported by bus to Wharf and board to MV Kavarathi. There will be regular video show on board the ship. A short instructional video show also will be screened depicting the various facilities available on board the ship and about the rules and regulations to be followed by the tourists on board for their own safety and for the safety of co-passengers. Day 02: Arrive at First Island Request you to finish your morning chores very early, Morning tea will be serve 06.00 to 06.30, Breakfast 07.00 to 07.30 onboard 07.30 to 08.00 Disembarkation (Follow the announcement on board) 08:00 to 09:00 reception with welcome drinks , 09:00 to 13:00 Water Sports activities, 13:00 to 13:45 Lunch in the beach (Buffet separately for veg and Non Veg) , 14:00 to 15:30 sightseeing, 16:00 to 16:30 Evening Tea with Snacks, 16:30 to 16:45 Boarding/Embarkation to Ship MV Kavarathi , 20:00 to 20:45 Dinner. Day 03: Arrive at Second Island Request you to finish your morning chores very early , Morning tea will be serve 06.00 to 06.30, Breakfast 07.00 to 07.30 onboard 07.30 to 08.00 Disembarkation (Follow the announcement on board) , 08:00 to 09:00 reception with welcome drinks , 09:00 to 13:00 Water Sports activities, 13:00 to 13:45 Lunch in the beach (Buffet separately for veg and Non Veg) , 14:00 to 15:30 sightseeing, 16:00 to 16:30 Evening Tea with Snacks, 16:30 to 16:45 Boarding/Embarkation to Ship MV Kavarathi , 20:00 to 20:45 Dinner. Day 04: Arrive at Third Island Request you to finish your morning chores very early , Morning tea will be serve 06.00 to 06.30, Breakfast 07.00 to 07.30 onboard 07.30 to 08.00 Disembarkation (Follow the announcement on board) , 08:00 to 09:00 reception with welcome drinks , 09:00 to 13:00 Water Sports activities, 13:00 to 13:45 Lunch in the beach (Buffet separately for veg and Non Veg) , 14:00 to 15:30 sightseeing, 16:00 to 16:30 Evening Tea with Snacks, 16:30 to 16:45 Boarding/Embarkation to Ship MV Kavarathi , 20:00 to 20:45 Dinner. Day 05: Arrival Kochi Morning tea will be serve 06.00 to 06.30, Breakfast 07.00 to 07.30 onboard, Collect you LTC/LTA Certificate from the SPORTS Manager Onboard 10.30 to 12.00 Disembarkation (Follow the announcement on board). PRICING NO OF GUEST 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years Includes: TOUR COST PER PERSON SILVER 3* 27500 27500 27500 27500 19750 Free • • • • • • • • First class cabin accommodation All 3 time meals [breakfast Lunch and Dinner] morning and evening tea or coffee Welcome drink at the island All 3 island sightseeing Water Sports Kayaking Snorkeling and Glass boat ride 1 time Entry permit and heritage fee Compliment T Shirts and Caps Personal assistance on the ship and Island Excludes: • • • Under water scuba diving @ Rs: 2,000 per dive with Equipment's and trained dive master (Under water snapes on CD) Wind surfing & Para sailing 9% Service tax 44 Skyway International Travels7 Andaman Package 1 Portblair / Havelock Island / Portblair 3 Nights / 4 Days Day 01: Arrive Andaman, Visit Sound & Light Show at Cellular Jail Meet on arrival at Portblair Airport and transfer to hotel.  Later proceed to attend the enthralling Sound and Light Show at Cellular Jail - (at 1800 hrs or 1900 Hrs, depending on light and sound show ticket availability. (Closed on Mondays and Public Holidays) where the heroic saga of the Indian freedom struggle is brought alive. Day 02: Journey to Havelock by Ferry from Port Blair and visit Radhanagar Beach at Havelock Early morning departure @ 0645 hrs ferry from Port Blair – Havelock. The ferry takes 2.5 hrs to reach Havelock. On arrival check into hotel and in the evening visit Beach No 7* (Radhanagar Beach) rated as the 'Best Beach in Asia' by Time Magazine (N/Ac Car/Jeep will be provided for pickup and drop, time spent 2-3 hours). Return back to hotel to relax and unwind. (Kindly remind hotel to provide packed breakfast at Port Blair since the same is not included at Havelock). Overnight. Day 03: Havelock: Return to Port Blair Check out in the morning. Return from Havelock Island in the evening by Govt ferry 1530 hrs/ 1545 hrs and transfer to hotel in Port Blair. Ferry takes 2.5 hrs to cover the distance. Drop to Port Blair Hotel. Evening at Leisure. (Do note that all hotels on Havelock have a early morning check out time and late checkout is provided at the discretion  of the hotel management) Day 04: Portblair Departure Depart Port Blair with Fond memories of these mesmerising Islands. Includes: • • PRICING NO OF GUEST 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together • TOUR COST PER PERSON 30700 • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Daily breakfast, as indicated in the meal plan. (Except breakfast on day of arrival) Entry tickets, and ferry tickets to all sightseeing places. PB - Havelock - PB by Private ferry All transfers by Ac car in Port Blair and  Non Ac Jeep at Havelock. Excludes: 25400 (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years SILVER 3* 28500 29400 14800 Free • • • • • • Vehicle at disposal at Port Blair & Havelock. Any personal expenses. Room service and special orders. Alcoholic and non alcoholic beverages Any extra excursions or sightseeing apart from the suggested tour itinerary. Guide Charges, Camera Tickets are NOT INCLUDED in the mentioned cost of Sightseeing &   Transfers. Other meals not mentioned laundry, telephone calls, and incidentals. 9% Service tax Skyway International Travels 458 Andaman Package 2 Portblair / Havelock Island / Portblair 4 Nights / 5 Days Day 01: Arrive Andaman, Visit Sound & Light Show at Cellular Jail Meet on arrival at Portblair Airport and transfer to hotel.  Later proceed to attend the enthralling Sound and Light Show at Cellular Jail - (at 1800 hrs or 1900 Hrs, depending on light and sound show ticket availability. (Closed on Mondays and Public Holidays) where the heroic saga of the Indian freedom struggle is brought alive. Day 02: Journey to Havelock by Ferry from Port Blair and visit Radhanagar Beach at Havelock Early morning departure @ 0645 hrs ferry from Port Blair – Havelock. The ferry takes 2.5 hrs to reach Havelock. On arrival check into hotel and in the evening visit Beach No 7* (Radhanagar Beach) rated as the 'Best Beach in Asia' by Time Magazine (N/Ac Car/Jeep will be provided for pickup and drop, time spent 2-3 hours). Return back to hotel to relax and unwind. (Kindly remind hotel to provide packed breakfast at Port Blair since the same is not included at Havelock). Overnight. Day 03: Havelock: Excursion to Elephant Beach Vehicle will report at 0700 hrs and please ensure you are ready as the boat will leave at 0830 hrs and it is a further 10 min drive away to the boat) Embark on the most memorable snorkelling trip, just 25 min by Boat this beach offers snorkelers calm  blue shallow waters and is the perfect spot for beginner snorkelers. The boat goes right up to the beach and it's so easy to slip on your gear and just start snorkelling. It's also a great place to just spend the day lying on the beach and relaxing. The beach is very scenic with fallen trees and white sand giving the photographer some interesting shots. The reef here starts very close to shore at a depth of about 1 metre. The large reef is mostly made up of hard coral and has plenty of marine life. Note: Inclusive of snorkelling equipment and car pick up and drop to jetty. (The trip may be changed to light house subject to weather conditions and visibility) (Do note that incase if the reporting time is delayed for Elephant Beach No Refund will be offered if the boat has left) Day 04: Havelock: Return to Port Blair Check out in the morning Return from Havelock Island in the evening by Govt ferry 1530 hrs/ 1545 hrs and transfer to hotel in Port Blair. Ferry takes 2.5 hrs to cover the distance. Drop to Port Blair Hotel. Evening at Leisure. (Do note that all hotels on Havelock have a early morning check out time and late checkout is provided at the discretion  of the hotel management) Day 05: Portblair Departure Depart Port Blair with Fond memories of these mesmerising Islands. Includes: • • PRICING NO OF GUEST 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together • TOUR COST PER PERSON 24500 • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Daily breakfast, as indicated in the meal plan. (Except breakfast on day of arrival) Entry tickets, and ferry tickets to all sightseeing places. PB - Havelock - PB by Private ferry All transfers by Ac car in Port Blair and  Non Ac Jeep at Havelock Excludes: 20250 (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years SILVER 3* 22750 23500 11800 Free • • • • • • Vehicle at disposal at Port Blair & Havelock. Any personal expenses. Room service and special orders. Alcoholic and non alcoholic beverages Any extra excursions or sightseeing apart from the suggested tour itinerary. Guide Charges, Camera Tickets are NOT INCLUDED in the mentioned cost of Sightseeing &   Transfers. Other meals not mentioned laundry, telephone calls, and incidentals. 9% Service tax 46 Skyway International Travels9 Karnataka Heritage Tour 1 Bangalore / Chitradurga / Hospet – Hampi / Bangalore 4 Nights / 5 Days Day 01: Arrival at Bangalore Meet on arrival and transfer to hotel. Depending on the arrival, proceed for half-day city tour to ISKCON temple - the Krishna temple is a blend of modern technology and spiritual harmony, Lalbagh - 240 acres of beautifully sculpted gardens, flowers abound, rare collection of tropical and sub-tropical plants, Vidhana Soudha - this massive building houses the State Legislature and the Secretariat. Return to hotel and overnight. Day 02: Bangalore / Chitradurga Morning breakfast checkout and drive to Chitradurga. On arrival check into a hotel. Later visit Chitradurga Fort - the old walled town houses the impressive fort, built on the north eastern base of a cluster of rocky hills, qualifying it to be a Giridurga, or hill fortress, known as Yelu Suthina Kote (the fort is fortified by seven circular walls, three of which are on the ground and four on the hill). Return to hotel and overnight. Day 03: Chitradurga / Hospet - Hampi Morning breakfast checkout and drive to Hampi – the World Heritage Center, is the most beautiful and evocative of all the ruins of Karnataka. On arrival check into a hotel.  Relax and proceed to visit Stone Chariot located within Vittala Temple.  Overnight. Day 04: Hospet - Hampi Morning breakfast, proceed for full day sightseeing visit Virupaksha Temple, Queens Bath, Lotus Mahal, Elephant Stables and Pushkarni. Overnight. Day 05: Hospet - Hampi/ Bangalore Morning breakfast, check out and drive to Bangalore airport to board your flight. Tour ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years 17500 12700 SILVER 3* 14000 20700 4750 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax Skyway International Travels 4710 Karnataka Heritage Tour 2 Bangalore / Hospet - Hampi / Bijapur / Badami / Goa 6 Nights / 7 Days Day 01: Arrival at Bangalore Meet on arrival and transfer to hotel. Depending on the arrival, proceed for half-day city tour to ISKCON temple - the Krishna temple is a blend of modern technology and spiritual harmony, Lalbagh - 240 acres of beautifully sculpted gardens, flowers abound, rare collection of tropical and sub-tropical plants, Vidhana Soudha - this massive building houses the State Legislature and the Secretariat. Return to hotel and overnight. Day 02: Bangalore / Hospet - Hampi Morning breakfast checkout and drive to Hampi – the World Heritage Center, is the most beautiful and evocative of all the ruins of Karnataka.   On arrival check into a hotel.  Relax and proceed to visit Stone Chariot located within Vittala Temple.  Overnight. Day 03: Hospet - Hampi Morning breakfast, proceed for full day sightseeing visit Virupaksha Temple, Queens Bath, Lotus Mahal, Elephant Stables and Pushkarni. Overnight. Day 04: Hospet - Hampi / Bijapur Early breakfast, checkout and drive to Bijapur.  On arrival check into hotel.  Later visit Gol Gumbaz - the most  important attraction of Bijapur, the largest dome in the world, Mehtar Mahal - is on the way to the old city. heavily influenced by the Indo-Saracenic style, Gagan Mahal - built by Adil Shah I (1561), is a palace-cumaudience hall. The central arch of Gagan Mahal is the tallest and widest in entire Bijapur. Return to hotel. Overnight. Day 05: Bijapur / Badami Morning breakfast, check out and drive to Badami. On arrival check in to hotel. Lunch and later proceed to visit Aihole - famous as the Cradle of Indian Temple Architecture, it has over 125 temples all intricately carved and rich in detail, later visit Pattadakal - A World Heritage Site it has 10 major temples representing early Chalukyan architecture. Back to hotel. Overnight. Day 06: Badami Breakfast and proceed to visit Badami Caves – picturesquely situated at the mouth of a ravine between two rocky hills, the exquisite sculptures and the rust red sandstone cliffs of Badami tell many a tale of yore.  Back to hotel.  Overnight. Day 07: Badami / Goa Morning breakfast, checkout and drive to Goa.  On arrival drop to Goa Airport to board the flight onward destination. Tour ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years 25500 18070 SILVER 3* 21500 31170 7000 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax 48 Skyway International Travels11 Karnataka Spiritual Tour Mangalore / Udupi / Murudeshwar / Gokarna / Sringeri / Mangalore 5 Nights / 6 Days Day 01: Arrival at Mangalore Meet on arrival at Mangalore airport and transfer to hotel. Relax and later proceed to visit Managala Devi temple, Kadri temple, Aloysius Church.  Return to hotel. Overnight. Day 02: Mangalore / Udupi Morning breakfast, checkout and drive to Udupi. On arrival check into hotel. Later visit Sri Krishna temple – one of the most famous temples of South India, located at the heart of Udupi town.  St. Mary's Islands - are a group of small islands lying a little to the north of the port of Malpe in the Arabian Sea. Return to hotel and overnight Day 03: Udupi / Murudeshwara Morning breakfast, check out and drive to Murudeshwara, enroute visit the famous Kollur Mookambika temple. On arrival check into hotel. Relax and overnight . Day 04: Murudeshwara / Gokarna Morning breakfast, check out and drive to Gokarna, famous for its beautiful beaches and landscapes. This coastal town draws Hindu piligrims. On arrival check into hotel / resort. Later visit Mahabaleshwara temple with its Atmalinga, the Venkatramana temple and the Ganapati temple. Relax and overnight. Day 05: Gokarna / Kollur / Sringeri Morning breakfast check out and drive to Sringeri enroute visit Kollur. On arrival check into Hotel.  Overnight. Day 06: Sringeri / Horanadu / Mangalore Morning breakfast checkout and drive to Hornadu, Temple Visit and later drive to Mangalore.  On arrival drop to Mangalore Airport to board the train / flight for onward destination. Tour Ends PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years 20500 15500 SILVER 3* 16500 22900 5500 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax Skyway International Travels 4912 Mysore & Ooty Bangalore / Mysore / Ooty / Bangalore 4 Nights / 5 Days Day 01: Arrive at Bangalore Meet on arrival and transfer to hotel, depending on arrival, proceed for afternoon half-day city tour to ISKCON temple - the Krishna temple is a blend of modern technology and spiritual harmony, Lalbagh - 240 acres of beautifully sculpted gardens, flowers abound, rare collection of tropical and sub-tropical plants, Vidhana Soudha - this massive building houses the State Legislature and the Secretariat. Later on return to hotel and overnight. Day 02: Bangalore / Mysore Morning breakfast, checkout and drive to Mysore - known for its magnificent palaces and majestic buildings, sprawling gardens and treelined boulevards, shimmering silks and sandalwood, the 'City Royale' always figures in the tourist's itinerary, enroute visit Srirangapatna - Island fortress of Tippu Sultan. Visit Tippu's Summer Palace, Mosque, and Sriranganatha temple. On arrival check into a hotel and evening visit Chamundi Hill - perched atop a hill. The 4.8m tall monolith of Nandi and the gigantic Mahishasura statue are added attractions. Return to hotel and overnight. Day 03: Mysore / Ooty Morning breakfast, checkout and proceed to visit Maharaja Palace - the palace is a splendid structure in the IndoSaracenic style. Later drive to Ooty called the Queen of Hill Stations picturesque, green Udhagamandalam better known as Ooty, is the most popular hill station in the South, Enroute visit Bandipur National Park and Madumalai National Park, on arrival check in to a hotel, evening free and overnight. Day 04: Ooty Morning breakfast, proceed for full day sight seeing visit Botanical Garden - is spread over 22 hectares ascending the slopes on the hill, Rose Garden - the rose varieties planted in this park were assembled from different sources with 17,256 rose plants from 1919 varieties, Deer Park, is one of the high altitude animal park in India, Doddabetta is highest peak (2634 meters) in the Nilgiris, Ooty Lake - which extends to an area of 65 acres, good for boating. Return to hotel and overnight. Day 05: Ooty / Bangalore Morning breakfast, checkout and drive to Bangalore airport for your onward journey. Tour ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years 17750 13500 SILVER 3* 14500 21500 5000 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax 50 Skyway International Travels13 Bandipur & Wayanad Tour Bangalore / Bandipur / Wayanad / Bangalore 3 Nights / 4 Days Day 01: Bangalore /Bandipur Meet on arrival at Bangalore and drive to Bandipur. On arrival check into Hotel.  Lunch and proceed for wildlife safari, Back to resort, wildlife film show.  Back to hotel  Overnight. Day 02: Bandipur / Wayanad Breakfast checkout and drive to Wayanad, on arrival check into Hotel.  Relax and proceed for sightseeing visit Soochipara Falls and Pookot Lake. Back to hotel.  Overnight. Day 03: Wayanad Full day Local sightseeing visit Edakkal Caves, Meenumutty Falls, Kuruva Island, Back to hotel.  Overnight. Day 04: Wayanad / Bangalore Breakfast checkout and drive to Bangalore.  On arrival drop to Bangalore Airport to board the flight for onward destination. Tour Ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years Includes: TOUR COST PER PERSON 19500 17000 SILVER 3* 17500 23500 12200 Free • • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Accommodation with all meals, wildlife safari, Guided Trekking, Forest Entry fees, camera Fees and tax at Bandipur Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax Skyway International Travels 5114 Madurai & Munnar Madurai / Munnar / Madurai 4 Nights / 5 Days Day 01: Madurai Meet on arrival at Madurai Airport/ Railway station and transfer to hotel.  Relax and evening visit Meenakshi temple to attend the night ceremony at the temple at 9 P.M. This is a ceremony that takes place every evening when the temple bronze of Lord Shiva is carried to the bedchamber of Parvati. The procession is accompanied by religious prayer and temple music. Overnight. Day 02: Madurai Day trip to Rameshwaram and back to Madurai. Overnight. Day 03: Madurai / Munnar Morning breakfast checkout and drive to Munnar - one of the most popular hill stations in India is situated at the confluence of three mountain streams. On arrival check into  hotel. Later proceed for half day sightseeing, visit to Lock Heart Gap - This is an ideal place for adventure tourism and trekking. Echo Point - This scenic place gets its name from the natural echo phenomenon here. Echo Point is on the way to Top Station. Nyayamakad - is a land of breathtaking waterfalls. Return to resort/hotel, dinner and overnight. Day 04 : Munnar Morning breakfast and proceed to full day sightseeing, visit to Anayirankal - It's a lush green carpet of tea plants. Pothamedu - offers an excellent view of the tea, coffee and cardamom plantations in Munnar. Tea Museum - Munnar is perhaps the choicest of places to preserve and showcase some of the exquisite and interesting aspects on the genesis and growth of tea plantations in Kerala's high ranges. Return to hotel. Overnight. Day 05: Munnar / Madurai Breakfast checkout and drive to Madurai, On arrival drop to Railway station or Airport to board the flight / train for onward destination. Tour Ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years 19000 15500 SILVER 3* 17000 22000 3500 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax



Pondicherry Getaway Bangalore/ Pondicherry/ Bangalore 3 Nights / 4 Days Day 01: Bangalore / Pondicherry Meet on arrival at Bangalore Airport and drive to Pondicherry, On arrival check into Hotel. Relax and overnight. Day 02: Pondicherry Morning breakfast and proceed to visit many beautiful colonial buildings, churches, temples, and statues which combined with the systematic town planning and the well planned French style avenues, still preserve much of the colonial ambiance. It is a blend of spiritual aura, French colonial heritage, Tamil culture, virgin beaches and the cosmopolitan flair of many nationalities in a small but varied city. The most popular tourist destinations are the four beaches in Pondicherry, which are Promenade Beach, Paradise Beach, The Auroville Beach and Serenity Beach. Day 03: Pondicherry Morning breakfast proceed to visit Auroville, This is the place where people from different nationalities, religions, creeds and beliefs can live in peace and harmony. The construction of this 'universal town' was started in 1968 and is still under progress. Also visit the Eglise de Sacre Coeur De Jesus, it is a catholic church that is noted for its Gothic architecture and stained glass planes. Afternoon free to enjoy the beaches at Pondicherry. Overnight. Day 04: Pondicherry / Bangalore Breakfast checkout and drive to Bangalore.  Tour Ends. PRICING NO OF GUEST TOUR COST PER PERSON 2 Persons travelling together (Double Occupancy) 3 Persons travelling together (Triple Occupancy) 4 Persons Travelling together (2 Double Occupancy) 1 Person travelling together with 2 persons (Single Occupancy) Children between 6 - 12 years Children below 5 years 14500 10500 SILVER 3* 12000 16500 3250 Free Includes: • • • Accommodation on single / twin / triple sharing with bed,  breakfast and all taxes as per the itinerary Transportation by A/c vehicle as per the itinerary Driver allowance, parking, toll, inter state permit and taxes. Excludes: • • • • Lunch and Dinner Guide service and entrance fees Flight / Train tickets & anything not mentioned in the inclusion 9% Service tax Skyway International Travels 53Our preferred Hotels / Resorts in India 3 Star 4 Star 5 Star Agra Hotel Amar, Hotel Pushpa Villa, Trident Agra ITC Mughal, Radisson Blu Hotel, Hotel Crystal Inn, Hotel Taj Resorts Hotel Marina Agra, Hotel Clark Shiraz The Taj Gateway Ahmedabad Comfort Inn President, Fortune Landmark, Park Plaza, Le Meridian, The Gateway Hotel, Sarovar Portico, Country Inn & Suites By Carlson Courtyard By Marriott, Quality Inn Rivera Lemon Tree Hotel, Lemon Tree Hotel Radisson Blu Alleppey Punnamada Backwater Resort, Lemon Tree Vembanad Lake The Park on Vembanad Lake Pagoda Resorts Marari Beach Resort, Lakes & Lagoons Aurangabad Hotel Atithi, Hotel Avon International The Meadows, Vivanta By Taj Hotel Amarpreeth Lemon Tree Hotel WelcomHotel Rama International Bangalore Grand Magrath, The Elanza, The Chancery, Southern Star Taj Westend, The Lalit Ashok, My Fortune The Solitaire, Young Island Comforts The Pride, Royal Orchid Central Le Meriden, The Chancery Pavilion, ITC Gardenia Hotel Ramanashree, Nahar Heritage Radisson Blu Hotel The Gateway Hotel, Residency Road Bandipur JLR Bandipur Safari Lodge, The Serai Bandipur National Park Dholes Den, M C Resort The Windflower Resort & Spa Badami The Heritage Resort, Krishna Heritage Badami Court, Hotel Clarks Bikaner Hotel Basant Vihar Palace, Hotel Gaj Kesari Laxmi Niwas Palace - Heritage Heritage Resort Bikaner, Bekal Niravana, Hotel Bekal Palace Malabar Ocean Front Resort & Spa The Lalit Resort & Spa, Vivanta By Taj Bhopal Hotel Lake View Ashok, Hotel Amar Palace Welcom Heritage Noor Us Palace B.R. Hills JLR K Gudi Wilderness Camp, Gorukana Resort Calicut Hotel Asma Tower, The Raviz Resort & Spa Kadavu The Gateway Hotel Westway Hotel, Hayson Heritage Malabar Palace Chennai Benz Park Tulip, The Residency, Hotel Breeze Fortune Select Palms, Radison Hotel GRT, Raj Park Chennai, Deccan Plaza hotel Green park, GRT Grand, Quality Inn Sabari Trident Chennai Chikmagalur The Planters Court The Gateway Hotel The Serai - Chikmagalur Coimbatore Hotel CAG Pride, Hotel City Tower The Residency Hotel, Hotel Heritage Inn Vivanta By Taj Surya, Le Meridien Coonoor MGM Hillworth The Gateway Hotel, Kurumba Village Resort Cochin The International Hotel Kochi Cherai Beach Resort, The Residency Taj Residency, Taj Malabar, Abad Atrium, Broad Bean, Delight Home Stay Hotel Presidency, Old Light House Bristow Hotel Le Meriden, The Trident, Crowne Plaza Coorg JLR Dubare Elephant Camp, Purple Palms, Windflower Spa & Resort Vivanta By Taj- Madikeri KSTDC  Mayura Valley View, Crystal Court Paddington Resort & Spa, Club Mahindra Madikeri Orange County, The Ibini Le Coorg, Abbydhama Estate Stay Amanvana Spa & Resort, Club Mahindra Virajpet The Tamara Coorg Darjeeling Central Niravana, Central Heritage, Elgin Dajeeling, May Fair Hill Resort, Sinclairs Hotel Dandeli JLR Kali Adventure Camp Sangway Holiday Home, Hornbill River Resort Delhi Hotel Grand Sartaj, Hotel Iris Park, Hotel Connaught, Vivanta By Taj Ambassador, The Taj Mahal Hotel Hotel Almonds, Hotel Broadway Maidens Hotel, Hotel Diplomat The Leela Palace, The Lalit, Taj Palace Hotel Goa Aldia Santa Rita, Sun Village, Bay Watch Resort, Cidade De Goa, Kenil Worth Beach Resort Sandal Wood Beach Resort, Santiago Resort Lemon Tree Amarante, Beach Resort Radisson Blu, The zuri Gangtok Greendale Residence, Elgin Nor Khill, Hotel Tara Palace Sterling Delisso Abode Resort Summit Norling Resort & Spa Gokarna Om Beach Resort, Majali Beach Village SwaSwara, Sanskruti Resort Gulmarg Hotel Grand Mumtaz, Hotel Heevan Retreat The Vintage Gulmarg The Khyber Himalayan Resort & Spa Gwalior Hotel Central Park, Hotel Silver Oak Taj Usha Kiran Palace Hassan Hotel Southern Star, Hotel Mallige Residency Hoysala Village Hotel Hassan Ashok Hospet Krishna Palace, Hotel Malligi, Royal Orchid Central Kireeti Orange County- Hampi JLR Sloth Bear Resort, Heritage Resort Kishikinda Heritage Resort Hyatt Place KSTDC Mayura Bhuvaneshwari, Clarks Inn Jaipur Hotel Hawa Mahal, Fortune Select Metropolitan The Lalit, Le Meriden, Hotel Jaipur Greens, Golden Tulip Trident Jaipur, Hotel Mansingh Jai Mahal Palace, Country Inn & Suites by Carlson, The Ramgarh Lodge Jodhpur Hotel Karni Bhawan Park Plaza, Ranbanka Palace Umaid Bhawan Palace, Vivanta by Taj-Hari Mahal Jaisalmer Heritage Inn, Gorbandh Palace BRY's Fort, Taj Gateway City Skyway International Travels 54Karwar Devbagh Beach Resort, Emerald Bay Resort, Ocean Deck Home Stay Kanyakumari Singaar International, Sparsa Anantya Resort Hotel Sea View, Cape Residency Khajuraho Hotel Zen Khajuraho Hotel Usha Bundela Radisson Jass, Hotel Clarks, The Lalit Temple View Kumarakom Coco Bay Resort, Back Water Retreat Lake Song Resort, Kumarakom Lake Resort, Taj Garden Retreat Saro Lake County Back Water Ripples Coconut Lagoon Resort, The Zuri Kumarakom The Park - Vembanad Lake Kodaikanal Hotel Kodai Resort, The Carlton, Mountain View, Valley View (Sterling) Hotel Kodai International Kovalam Abad Harmonia Ayurveda Hotel Sea Face, The Leela Kovalam Beach Beach Resort Estuary Island Resort, Vivanta By Taj, Beach and Lake Ayurvedic Raja Kovalam, Jasmine Palace Isola Di Cocco Beach Resort, Resort, Turtle on the Beach Poovar Island Resort Uday Samudra Beach Resort Lucknow Comfort Inn Lucknow, Hotel Sagar International Golden Tulip Lucknow Vivanta By Taj Best western Plus Levana Hotel Clarks Avadh Leh Grand Himalaya, Hotel Dragon The Grand Dragon Madurai Hotel Sangam, Hotel Supreme, Heritage Hotel The Taj Gateway Hotel Best Western Germanus GRT Grand Mysore Kings Kourt Hotel, The Viceroy Hotel Southern Star, Royal Orchid Metropole Lalitha Mahal Palace (Heritage) Young Island Resort, Hotel Pai Vista Windflower Spa & Resort Fortune JP Palace Casa Clarks Inn, The President Sandesh De Prince Radisson Blu Plaza Mangalore The Ocean Pearl, Deepa Comforts, The Gateway Hotel, Gold Finch Hotel Mahabali Hotel Mamalla Heritage, The Chariot Beach Resort, Radisson Temple Bay Resort,Taj Fisherman’s Cove puram Golden Sun Hotel and Beach Resort WelcomHotel Kences Palm Beach Resort Munnar Hotel T & U, Misty Mountain Tea County, Camelot Resort Mountain Club, Club Mahindra Lakeview Greenland Spice country Resort Ambady Estate Plum Judy Panoramic Gateway Mumbai King's International, Hotel Trident, The Emerald The Taj Mahal Hotel, Jm Marriott Hotel Hotel Supreme Heritage Hotel Kohinoor Continental The Lalit, The Leela, The Taj Mahal Palace Nagarahole JLR Kabini River Lodge, The Serai Kabini Orange County National Kabini Springs, Red Earth Kabini Park-Kabini The Peepal Tree, Kaav Resort Kings Sanctuary Ooty Holiday Inn Gem Park, Hotel Sinclairs, Fern Hills, Club Mahindra Derby Green Taj Savoy Hotel Sullivan Court, Hotel Webleck Residency Club Mahindra Danish Villa, Kurumba Village Patna Fortune Residency, Hotel Clarks Inn Hotel Chanukya, Hotel Pataliputra Hotel Maurya Pahalagam Hotel Forest Hill Resort, Mountain View Hotel Hill Top, Paradise Inn Pondicherry Hotel Lotus Comfort, Hotel Ginger, The Windflower Spa & Resort, Club Mahindra  at Zest at Big The Ashok Beach Resort Hotel Athithi, The Richmond Beach, The Accord, Le Pondy Pushkar Hotel Gulaab Niwaas Palace, Pushkar Resort, Ananta Spa & Resorts Hotel Pushkar Heritage The orchard Resort Srinagar Hotel Grand Kashmir, Hotel Imperial Lake View Peacock House Boat, Hotel Broadway The lalit Grand Palace, Vivanta By Taj Sonmarg Mountain Greens, Hotel Sonmarg Resort Thanjavur Hotel Sangam, Hotel Oriental Towers Thekkady Wood N Spice, Carmelia Haven, Cardmom County, Green Woods, Spice Village, Tusker Trails, Spice Garden Abad Green Forest, Forest Canopy Premium The Elephant Court Trivandrum Hotel Horizon, Hotel Pankaj, Fortune Hotel The south Park Vivanta By Taj, The Leela Classic Avenue, The Gateway Hotel Udaipur Lake Pichola, Hotel Rajadarshan Amantra Comfort Hotel, The leela Palace, Cambay Spa & Resort, Golden Tulip, Taj lake Palace, Trident Udaipur The Oberoi Udaivilas Varanasi Hotel Crescent Villa, Hotel Hindustan International Hotel Clarks, Hotel Ideal Tower Hotel City Inn Radisson Hotel Varkala Deshadan Beach Resort, The Gateway Hotel Hindustan Beach Resort Janaradhanapuram, Blue Water Resort Wayanad Rain County Resort, Bamboo Creek Resort Silver Woods, The Windflower Resort & Spa Vythiri Resort Blue Ginger Resort, Bansura Hill Resort Vythiri Village City 3 Star 4 Star 5 Star Skyway International Travels 55Booking Process & Terms & Conditions BOOKING & PAYMENT CONDITIONS 1.Tour prices are printed in our brochures. Please return duly signed and completed booking form to us with an initial deposit of Rs. 10,000/- per person for all tour packages. This initial deposit amount is non refundable or non transferable in the event of cancellation / change of travel date of tour by the Clients. 2.The Client must pay the balance amount 30 days prior to the date of departure of the Tour. If client fails to pay the balance amount within stipulated time then the booking shall be deemed to be the cancelled and entire initial deposit will be forfeited and the passenger shall not be entitled to the refund of the same. 3.Payments by online using our secured Net Banking /Payment Gateway / RTGS/NEFT/ Demand drafts to be payable in the name of “Skyway International Travels”. On payment of the deposit amount you will be given an official receipt from Skyway. Tickets, Hotel vouchers, Transport vouchers and Tour Documents would be issued 6 days prior to date of departure. AMENDMENTS / CANCELLATIONS If the Client is desires  to amend or cancel his/her booking because of whatsoever reasons including death, accident, illness, or any other personal reasons including non-payment of the balance payment, the Company is liable to recover cancellation charges from the Client as under: When a Cancellation Is made on or before 30 days prior to the departure of the Tour 29 -15 Days prior to the departure of the Tour 14 days or less prior to date of Cancellation Charges per person Initial deposit amount or 10% which ever is higher 50%of the Total Tour Cost 100%of the Total Tour Cost departure or a “No Show “ on the tour Any amendment in the original booking has to be given to us in writing. All changes will be processed only after the receipt of the same by the Company. However, if any of the amendment requests results in cancellation of one or more services, then the Company  reserves the right to recover cancellation charges as indicated in the above-mentioned table. The above-mentioned cancellation charges are applicable only against our  Tours and optional tours published by  Skyway.  If the client has booked any other services such as air / train tickets or any third party product, then the Company is liable to recover cancellation charges as per cancellation terms of respective airline / railways / hotel or the cancellation terms of respective third party. Skyway  is also liable to recover its service charges against booking and cancelling such services for the client. REFUNDS Refunds (If any) for amendments and/or cancellations will be paid directly to the Client for booking made directly with the Company by way of  NEFT / RTGS / Crossed cheque at the discretion of the company.  It would at least take 15 days to process refunds. There is no refund payable for any unutilized services (e.g. meals, entrance fees, optional tours, hotels, transport and sightseeing etc.,) for any reason whatsoever. If no suit/action is brought against THE COMPANY within 7 days of the last day of the tour, THE COMPANY shall be discharged from all liabilities  shall stand fully extinguished. LIABILITY 1. In the event of THE COMPANY exercising its rights to amend or alter any tour or holiday advertised in their brochure/ itinerary after such tour or holiday has been booked, the Client shall have the option of : • To continue with the Tour or holiday as amended or altered or to accept any      alternative tour or holiday, which the company may offer. • The client shall neither be entitled to nor THE COMPANY be liable to the client for any damage, additional expenses, consequential loss suffered by him or to pay any amount as refund. In the event that  the company is unable to conduct a particular tour, the company  shall at its own discretion, refund the amount of the cost of the said tour to the client (after deducting the actual expenses incurred by the company on clients' booking and on other overheads as applicable from case to case) without any interest on the same. The client will not be entitled to make any grievance thereafter in respect of the same. 2. The company shall, under  no circumstances whatsoever be liable to the client or any person traveling with him for: • any death, personal injury, sickness, accident, loss, delay, discomfort, increased expenses, consequential loss and/or damage or any kind of theft howsoever caused. • Any act, omission, default of any independent contractor or other person or by any servant or agent employed by them who may be engaged or concerned in the provision of accommodation, refreshment, carriage facility or service for the client or for any person traveling with him howsoever caused. • The temporary or permanent loss of or damage to baggage or personal effects howsoever caused including wilful negligence on the part of any person, shall not be binding on the company such as: • Loss of baggage by the airlines / coach / train. • Overbooking of seats by the airline. • Failure on the part of airline to accommodate passengers despite having confirmed tickets or change of route. 3. If in the event that the client is booked on a particular airline and the said flight is over booked/cancelled for whatever reason and the client is not allowed/able to board the flight, the client shall not hold the company responsible for the same and no claim whatsoever can be made by the client against the company for refund or any compensation. 4. The company shall not be responsible and / or liable for any damages caused to the client due to reasons beyond the control of the company (Force Majeure / Vis Majeure). While enjoying the services provided by  us, if any client's acts or omission results in damage or loss to us / vendor or service provider which includes but is not limited to (airlines, hotels, transports etc. and vendors' staff), the client shall be liable and agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the company its directors, managers / officers or such vendor from and against such claims. SCOPE OF ACTIVITY We are Tours & Travel  organizers only. We do not control or operate any airline, neither do we own or control any shipping company, coach or coach company, Hotel, Transport or any other facility or service mentioned in this brochure/website. We take care in selecting all the ingredients in your holiday, but because we only select and inspect them and have no control in running of them, we cannot be responsible for mechanical fault or any injury, death, loss or damage which is caused by the act or default of the management or employees of any hoteliers, airlines, shipping company, coach owner/ Transport operator who are the company's independent contractors arising outside our normal selection and inspection process. Health & Safety: The Company shall in no circumstances whatsoever will be liable to the Client or any person traveling for: a) Any death personal injury, sickness, accident, loss, delay, discomfort, increased expenses, consequential loss and / or damage or any misadventure howsoever caused Consequential Liability & General Guidelines: a) Any act, omission, default or Independent Contractor or other person or be any servant or agent , employed by them who may be engaged or concerned in the provision of accommodation, refreshment, carriage facilities or service for the Client or for any person travelling with him howsoever caused. b) The temporary or permanent loss of or damage to baggage or personal effects howsoever caused In this condition the expression “Howsoever caused” includes negligence on the part of any person. 56 Skyway International TravelsAIRLINE: c) No liability on the part of the Company arising in any way out of this Contract in respect of any tour, holiday, excursion facility shall exceed the total amount paid or agreed to be paid for the tour holiday, and shall in no case include any consequential loss or additional expense whatsoever. d) If the Client has any complaint in respect of the services provided by any of the Independent Contractors, the Client shall immediately notify the same in writing to the Independent Contractor and a copy thereof should be handed over to the Tour Manager of the Company in order to enable the Company to take up the matter with the Independent Contractor so that in future other Clients do not face the same difficulty. e) Any claim or complaint by the Client must be notified to the Company in writing within 7 days of the end of this holiday tour. No claim notified to this Company beyond this period will be entertained and the Company shall incur no liability and it shall be deemed that the liability is fully extinguished. f) It is hereby declared that the immunities provided under this Contract shall be available to the Company's managers, including Tour managers, employees, servants and agents but not to the Independent Contractors selected by the Company. g) Each of this condition shall be severable from the other end if any provision be invalid, illegal or unenforceable. The remaining provisions shall nevertheless have full force and effect. Insurance: The tour cost does not include the any costs towards the Travel / Mediclaim Insurance premium. In case if the Client needs an Insurance coverage, it is suggested to go for suitable insurance policy on your own. The Client has to deal directly with the Insurance company in case of settlement of any claim. The toll-free number is available on your policy document. Skyway or its subsidiary companies or agents has no role to pay in this regard. Details of Insurance coverage are available with our sales team. Change in Tour Price: The tour prices printed / advertised / quoted to Client are dynamic prices. The person booking tour early is likely to get the lowest price as communicated / offered by the Company, subject to availability of seats. Similarly, person booking tour at the last will be offered the highest prices. This pricing module has been adopted to get early bookings on tours. Hence it is quite obvious that persons travelling on a same group tour are likely to have paid different tour prices. The Company will not entertain any claim whatsoever on account of the same. Also it is clear agreement between either parties that the prices quoted in the proposal / brochure have been calculated based upon the prevailing hotel / transport tariffs and applicable taxes thereon at the time of printing this brochure. The Company reserves the right to amend the price published in this brochure in case of costs increased before the date of departure. All such increases in price must be paid for in full before departure by the Client. Force Majure: Acts of god (including exceptional adverse weather conditions), earthquake, fire , war (declared or undeclared), invasion, rebellion, revolt, riot, civil commotion, civil war, nuclear fission, strike, act(s) of omission/commission by any concerned government(s), or government agencies, judicial or quasijudicial authorities, occurrence of any event can force the Company to change or extended. Hence any additional expenditure occurred due to the above reasons the same will be borne by the passengers. ITINERARY CHANGES For the comfort and convenience of our passengers; we will sometimes reverse the direction, or slightly amend the itinerary. We will try to advise you of these amendments, prior to the start of the tour or on tour. In the event that a tour participant misses on any part of the sightseeing tour or any such tour due to delay on his part, he will not be entitled to claim refund of the same. HOTEL We have mentioned the indicative names of the Hotels for each tour. We reserve the right to change the same due to unavoidable circumstances. In that case we may provide alternative, similar accommodation for which we are not liable to pay any refund. We will not be responsible or liable in case of loss of property or life at the Hotel. Similarly any damages caused to the hotel rooms during your stay, shall be payable by the Clients and the Company will not be liable for the same. The airfares the Company has contracted with various airlines are nonrefundable. The Company shall in no circumstances whatsoever be liable to the Client or any person travelling with him/her for: • While all efforts would be made to accommodate members of a family traveling together in the same flight, depending upon the overall group size the company reserves the right to split the group into multiple airlines for any departure. • Loss of baggage/ loss of life or loss of other valuables by the airlines. • Overbooking of seats by the airline. • Failure on the part of airline to accommodate passengers despite having confirmed tickets. • Change of flight timings or change of route with or without prior intimation. • If in the event that the flight is over booked or cancelled for whatever reason and the client is not allowed/able to board the flight, the client shall not hold the Company responsible for the same and no claim whatsoever can be made by the client. All incidental expenses arising out of such situation will be payable by the Client. • Please note the low cost airlines do not provide meals on board. • There is a limitation how much luggage can be carried as check-in baggage and cabin (hand) baggage. Luggage carried over and above the limit will have to be paid for by the Client at the time of check-in. Please note for few sectors caring cabin baggage is not allowed. • Airport taxes /airport development fees as applicable to be paid over & above tour cost should there be a rise post the printing of the brochure. • Though chances are less, however depending upon the group size the company reserves the right to split the group into multiple airlines for any departure.  All the airline ticket bookings / cancellation and travel on such airline ticket will be subject to the terms & conditions as mentioned in our Booking & Cancellation policy mentioned in this document. DISCLAIMER a. The Client agrees and acknowledges that they consent to participate in the excursion activities (trekking,  jeep safari, coracle ride, boat rides, ferry rides, snorkelling etc. which is included in the tour) without any obligation from the Company. Client confirms that he/she is medically fit to participate in all activities involved in excursion activities & fully accept my personal responsibility of my safety. b. THE COMPANY shall not be liable for any physical injury or loss of life caused to the Client due to such participation. Law & Jurisdiction: For all complaints, suits, claims or disputes of whatsoever nature relating to any products including tours by the Company and third party products and tours, the courts and tribunals in Mysore, India alone shall have exclusive jurisdiction. All tours are subject to laws, rules of RBI / Govt. of India or local bodies or respective country  rules and regulations. Upon signing the booking form, the above-mentioned terms & conditions shall be binding on both the Company and the Client and shall become the only basis of relations between the parties and all previous communication in whatsoever form or mode whether oral or otherwise, with respect to any terms & conditions of the tour and services shall stand cancelled / revoked / terminated. Declaration by the Client: I /We have read and accepted the above-mentioned terms & conditions on behalf of the person(s) whose name appears in Booking Form and I am /we are aware that I / we shall be abide by the same. I /We have also read the brochure / tour itinerary and notes and I accept the same. I /We have been given the copies of all the above-mentioned documents.
