Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|1
50 unique
Destinations
Exploring
india
Exploring
india
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations2|
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|5
Our country can be a fascinating tourist destination for the world, but
for some reason, we have not been able to do it as fast as we need to.
Come, let all of us, the countrymen, take the decision to boost tourism
in the country. As tourism grows, capital investment provides more
employment opportunities. The country’s economy also gets a boost.
People all over the world are ready to see India in a new way today. Let
us think how we can attract tourists to our country from the world over,
how we can strengthen the tourism sector and what arrangements
should be made at tourist destinations…
...Why don’t we develop 100 good tourist destinations, why shouldn’t
there be target of developing 2, 5 or 7 top class tourist destinations
in every state? North-East of India has huge natural resources but
how many universities make that part of the country as their tourist
destination? You do not have to spend much, neither do you need to
spend a lot of time; in 7 to 10 days you can visit within the country...
...I know people travel abroad for holidays but can we think of
visiting at least 15 tourist destinations across India before 2022, when
we mark 75 years of freedom...
...A new world will come into being in the places you visit. You will
get bliss in life. Once we Indians visit the tourist spots of North-East,
foreigners will also follow suit. But, think over when we go out of the
country and the people there ask, whether you have seen that temple
in Tamil Nadu and we say “No”; then how does it feel. They would be
surprised and say that they being foreigners, have visited that temple
but you being an Indian have not seen it so far. So, before we go abroad
we must know our country well...
Jai Hind!
The Book has been inspired by Hon’ble Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s
call to visit 15 tourist destinations across India before 2022, when we mark
75 years of freedom.
From ramparts of the red Fort
on the 73rd independence day
Shri Narendra Modi
Hon’ble Prime Minister of India
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|7
t gives me immense pleasure to know that Travel Agents Association of India
(TAAI) and Business of Travel Trade (BOTT), India have come together to bring
out a book, Exploring India through 50 Unique Destinations, to showcase
the immense tourism potential of India at India Tourism Mart (ITM), being
organised in New Delhi by the Ministry of Tourism.
Today, tourism is a fast-growing industry all over the globe. It has immense
opportunity to provide jobs in organised as well as unorganised sector.
Tourism also plays a very important role for the development of Indian
economy. India has the potential to provide a variety of tourism products in
order to cater to the needs of different categories of tourists.
Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on the 73rd
Independence Day, Honourable Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi rightly
said that India has much to offer and if domestic tourism increases, interna-
tional footfalls too will also increase. In sync with Prime Minister’s call to visit
15 domestic tourist destinations by 2022, it is commendable that the book is
featuring 50 unique tourist destinations in India for the young population of
India.
I hope that the Indian stakeholders would be able to create similar
successful partnerships in the travel and tourism industry to highlight the
immense tourism potential of our country.
t is heartening to know that Travel Agents Association of India (TAAI)
and Business of Travel Trade (BOTT), India have published a Book,
Exploring India through 50 Unique Destinations, to showcase the immense
tourism potential of our country at India Tourism Mart (ITM), from September
23-25, 2019 at The Ashok Hotel in New Delhi.
India Tourism Mart is a niche platform to establish Indian tourism among
the international stakeholders and a great opportunity to showcase the beauty
of our nation. Our tourism industry has long felt the need of a national platform
for our players to showcase themselves to the best international buyers. Like
the inaugural edition, ITM 2019 will further strengthen the identity of brand
Incredible India.
India with its diverse cultural heritage and varied geographies, offers huge
opportunities in catering to the demands of international tourism market. Ranging
from the introduction of e-Visa to vastly improved hospitality eco-systems, we
have endeavoured to create seamless travelling experience for all the visitors.
The growing influence of the tourism sector as an economic powerhouse and
its potential as a tool for development are irrefutable. Not only does the tourism
sector spearhead growth, it also improves the quality of people’s lives with its
capacity to create large scale employment of diverse kind. It supports environ-
mental protection, champions diverse cultural heritage and strengthens peace
in the world.
In order to achieve its true potential, it is high time we focus on the unexplored
tourist delights across the country. Taking honourable PM’s message forward, we
urge and request all Indians to 15 domestic tourist destinations by 2022. In this
context, TAAI and BOTT India are appreciated for bringing out the book, which
focuses on unexplored tourist destinations of India for the young population of
our country. I am sure, more and more citizens will be inspired to travel to these
destinations after reading the print or digital copy of the book.
I convey my best wishes for the success of the Book.
Shri Prahlad Singh Patel,
Minister of State,
(Independent charge) for Tourism,
Government of India
Shri Suman Billa IAS
Joint Secretary, Ministry of Tourism
Government of India
Message
Message
I I
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|9Exploring India50 Unique Destinations8|
e at TAAI (Travel Agents Association of India) are pleased to
co-publish, Exploring India through 50 Unique Destinations
for India Tourism Mart 2019 along with BOTT India to
highlight the immense tourism potential of India.
This Book has been initiated to share the vision of our Honorable Prime
Minister Shri Narendra Modi’s, to travel within India and it has featured
50 unique tourist destinations from across the country, keeping in consid-
eration the young population of the world. The topic is so relevant that it will
surely have a long lasting impression on the 200+ buyers and exhibitors from
75 countries who are participating at ITM 2019 along with the Indian travel
and trade industry.
Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on the 73rd
Independence Day, Honourable Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi so
beautifully stated that India has so much to offer and if domestic tourism
increases, international footfalls too will increase. Domestic Tourism in India
has immense opportunities, the increased footfall will not only generate
employment in organised as well as unorganised sectors, but will also play a
very vital role in the development of the Indian infrastructure and economy.
India has the potential to provide a variety of tourism products in order to
cater to the needs of different categories of tourists.
The book has both print as well as digital version, which shall be circulated
far and wide within and outside the country and incite the traveller to visit
the unique destinations of India.
Let this book initiated by TAAI contribute further to the success of Incredible
India, nationally and internationally and pave the path of increased tourism.
Let India be a country where all that a traveller can dream is found.
Jai Hind!
Jyoti Mayal
Hony. Secretary General
Travel Agents Association of
India (TAAI)
e are delighted to be presenting to our readers and
tourism leaders, this exceptional publication, which
promotes key Destinations of India. This initiative supports
TAAI’s mission to educate the world on travel and tourism
matters.
The destinations published in this book have a history;
culture and purpose, which make tourism in India, even
more prominent. Tourism can never be general. It must
be backed by a purpose. It is aimed to promote not only
natural offerings but also historic happenings from the
past as well as our culture that adds value to our purpose
of existence and transitioning from one era to another.
This publication will reach out to many within and
beyond India and we at TAAI shall do our utmost to
continue getting involved in such profound initiatives.
Our partnering with BOTT India, who have developed this
publication, acknowledges TAAI’s appreciation for the
effort invested to create this most valuable content.
Enjoy reading and getting updated…
W W
Sunil Kumar R
President, Travel Agents
Association of India
(TAAI)
Message Message
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|11Exploring India50 Unique Destinations10|
his is indeed a memorable moment in the history of Indian Tourism. As
India Tourism Mart (ITM) celebrates its second year of uniting the diverse
flavours of Indian travel and trade industry, we also applaud the launch of
the special book titled – Exploring India through 50 Unique Destinations.
As founding Chairman of FAITH, it gives me great pleasure to see how
far we have come together. Each of the ten member bodies of FAITH have
contributed immensely to the cause of Indian tourism. Good intent, great
partnerships and support of the government has helped us strengthen
brand Incredible India.
It is heartening to know that Travel Agents Association of India (TAAI),
one of FAITH’s member bodies is the co-publisher of this book along with
Business of Travel and Trade (BOTT) ; very well timed with the upcoming
India Tourism Mart (ITM 2019)
Drawing inspiration from Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to
the nation from the ramparts of Red Fort on the occasion of India’s 73rd
Independence Day, I feel no other country is as blessed as India, with
natural resources and highly skilled manpower. Together, we can achieve
the incredible. As PM Modi said, “High-jumps are needed in progress, one
needs to dream together if India has to become $5 trillion economy.”
My best wishes to each and every one who has contributed to this
wonderful piece of work that celebrates 50 Unique Destinations. However,
the experience of any destination lies in its local ethos. Let us take this
opportunity to commit ourselves to sustainable tourism and conserve our
natural resources and rich heritage.
After all, we are the land of “Atithi Devo Bhava.”
Nakul Anand,
Chairman, FAITH
(Federation of Associations
in Indian Tourism and
Hospitality)am glad to learn that BOTT India, like other publications is coming
out with a Special Book (Print as well Digital version), Exploring
India through 50 Unique Destinations, which will coincide with the
upcoming India Tourism Mart (ITM 2019) from September 23-25,
2019 at The Ashok Hotel in New Delhi.
The India Tourism Mart which is jointly being organised by FAITH
(Federation of Associations in Indian Tourism and Hospitality) and
supported by Ministry of Tourism, Government of India, is also one
step moving towards the target of 20 million in the next few years.
Today, tourism is a fast-growing industry all over the globe. It
has immense opportunity to provide jobs in organised as well as
unorganised sector. Tourism also plays a very important role for the
development of Indian economy. India has the potential to provide a
variety of tourism products in order to cater to the needs of different
categories of tourists.
Addressing the nation from the ramparts of the Red Fort on the
73rd Independence Day, Honourable Prime Minister, Shri Narendra
Modi rightly said that India has much to offer and if domestic tourism
increases, international footfalls too will also increase. In sync with
Shri Modi’s call to travel within India, it is commendable that the
book is featuring top 50 tourist destinations in India targeting the
young population of India.
On behalf of FAITH (Federation of Associations in Indian Tourism
and Hospitality) and all the other associations I represent, I convey
my best wishes for the success of the book. Let it contribute further
to the success of Incredible India, nationally and internationally.
T
Subhash Goyal,
Hony. Secretary, FAITH
(Federation of Associations
in Indian Tourism and
Hospitality)
I MessageMessage
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|13Exploring India50 Unique Destinations12|
TAAI NATIONAL OFFICE BEARERS
TAAI MANAGING
COMMITTEE MEMBERS
ContentsAkshardham Temple, Delhi ...................................................16
Araku Valley, Andhra Pradesh ................................................18
Auli, Uttarakhand ...................................................................20
Badami, Aihole, Karnataka ...................................................22
Badrinath, Kedarnath, Uttarakhand ....................................24
Barren Island, Andaman Islands ..........................................28
Bekal, Kerala ...........................................................................30
Bhimbedka, Madhya Pradesh ...............................................32
Bishnupur, West Bengal ........................................................34
Brahmaputra River Cruise, Guwahati ..................................36
Brihadeeswarar Temple, Thanjavur, Tamil Nadu ................38
Chitrakote Falls, Chhattisgarh ..............................................40
Coonoor, Karnataka ...............................................................42
Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary, Jharkhand ..................................44
Dausa, Rajasthan ...................................................................48
Dholavira, Gujarat ................................................................ 50
Divar Island, Goa ...................................................................52
Gokarna, Karnataka ...............................................................54
Gopalpur, Odisha ...................................................................56
Hemis, Jammu & Kashmir .....................................................58
Imphal Valley, Manipur .........................................................60
Kailasha Temple, Maharashtra .............................................64
Kanatal, Uttarakhand ............................................................66
Konark Festival, Odisha .........................................................68
Kushinagar, Uttar Pradesh ....................................................70
Lachung, Sikkim ....................................................................72
Manas National Park, Assam ................................................74
Mandu, Madhya Pradesh .....................................................76
Nalanda Remains, Bihar .......................................................78
Netarhat, Jharkhand ..............................................................80
Neemrana, Rajasthan ............................................................82
Nubra Valley, Jammu and Kashmir .......................................84
Orcha, Madhya Pradesh ........................................................86
Panchmarhi, Madhya Pradesh .............................................88
Panipat, Haryana ...................................................................90
Patan, Gujarat ........................................................................92
Patna Sahib, Bihar .................................................................94
Ponmudi, Kerala ...................................................................96
Rann of Kutch, Gujarat .........................................................98
Sadda Pind, Punjab .............................................................100
Shekhawati, Rajasthan ........................................................102
Somnath, Gujarat ................................................................104
Spiti Valley, Himachal Pradesh ...........................................106
Shravasti, Uttar Pradesh .....................................................108
Statue of Unity, Gujarat .......................................................110
Sundarbans, West Bengal ....................................................112
Tanjore, Tamil Nadu ............................................................114
Tiruchirappalli (Puliyancholai) Falls, Tamil Nadu .............116
Zanskar, Jammu and Kashmir ............................................118
Ziro Valley, Arunachal Pradesh ...........................................120
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations
Editor’s Note
Taking inspiration from Hon’ble
Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s
call to visit 15 tourist destinations
across India before 2022, TAAI and
Business of Travel Trade (BOTT),
India have published this Book,
Exploring India through 50 Unique
Destinations, to showcase the
immense tourism potential of our country.
With the young population in mind, we have featured
unique destinations from across the country ranging from
unexplored national parks to exotic beach destinations to
scenic hill locations, weekend getaways and much more.
A lot of effort has gone into selecting the destinations
representing almost all the states, creating interesting and
exciting content along with sourcing authentic real pictures.
To widen its reach and readership, the Book has both print
and digital versions, which can be downloaded free of cost
from either TAAI’s official website, ITM’s official website or
BOTT India’s official website.
Happy Reading!
Priyanka Saxena Ray
Editor, BOTT INDIA
priyanka@bottindia.com
Mr. Sunil Kumar R
President
Mr. Sanjay Narula
Vice President
Mrs. Jyoti Mayal
Hon. Secretary General
Mr. Imtiaz Qureshi
Hon. Treasure
About TAAI
TAAI, India’s oldest and largest travel & tourism
association boasts of its unique conglomerate
in terms of it being the only Nationally-func-
tional Nodal Body of Travel Agents, Inbound and
Outbound Tour Operators, Hotel Companies,
Airlines, Govt. Tourism Bodies, Overseas Members,
International Tourism Boards in India and
Educational Institutes broadly categorized as Active,
Associate, Allied, Government and, Non-Resident.
• TAAI is a Non- Political, Non-Commercial and
Non Profit making organization, catering to all
segments of Travel and Tourism & Hospitality
Industry.
• TAAI is recognized by the world body of Tourism
– UFTAA (United Federation of Travel Agents
Associations). Currently TAAI President Sunil
Kumar is also the President of UFTAA.
• TAAI has its membership spread through the
length and breadth of the country. There are
currently over 2450 satisfied members who are
proud to be associated with TAAI.
• In order to optimize its goals and to be effective
TAAI has 4 regions and 16 chapters that meet
at regular intervals. The Office Bearers and the
Managing Committee, which is its elected body,
meets at least 7 – 8 times in a year.
• TAAI organizes many roadshows, seminars, as
well business meetings throughout the year for
International Tourism Bodies which not only help
travel trade professionals from the point of view
of networking but also serve as a strong platform
to educate its own staff & business partners from
other regions of the world by exchanging the
local knowledge on a professional level.
Mr. Anil Kumar, GDS
Website Allied Member
Committee
Mr. Gurmeet Singh Vij,
Government Liaison &
Hospitality Committee
Mr. Pazhani Murugesan,
Assisting in Legal
Matters
Mr. Anoop Kanuga,
Tourism Services
Committee
Mr. M. S. Raghavan,
NAMASTAAI and
Education Initiatives
Mr. Rajan Sehgal,
PR & Allied Services
Committee
Mr. Bhagwan Ramnani,
Airlines Committee
Mr. P. Saravanan,
IATA member support;
TAAI’s education connect
and Airport Advisory
Mrs. Devaki Thiyagarajan,
Membership Development
Committee
Disclaimer: TAAI has been invited as a co-publisher to promote the
destinations contained herein. The content of this special publication is totally
compiled by Business of Travel Trade (BOTT) who are the co-publishers.
Disclaimer is hereby given by TRAVEL AGENTS ASSOCIATION OF INDIA
(TAAI) that we are not responsible for the content and our activity is restricted
to promote the publication & its destinations.
BOTTINDIA.COM
All information is derived from sources we con-
sider reliable. It is passed on to our readers
without any responsibility on our part. Opinions/
views expressed by third parties in abstract
or in interviews are not necessarily shared by
us. Material appearing in the book cannot be
reproduced in whole or in part(s) without ex-
press permission from publisher. The publisher
reserves the right to refuse, withdraw or oth-
erwise deal with all advertisements without
explanation. All advertisements must comply with
the Indian Advertisements Code. Exploring India
through 50 Unique Destinations is Conceptual-
ised, Published, Printed by Rai Umraopati Ray on
behalf of More Media Pvt. Ltd. B6, Ground Floor,
Kalkaji, New Delhi–110019.
PUBLISHER
Rai Umraopati Ray
DESIGNER
Ashok Kumar
EDITOR
Priyanka Saxena Ray
ASSISTANT EDITOR
Arushi Bajaj
SUB EDITOR
Meghna Rai
PICTURE COURTESy
ShutterStock.com

Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|17Exploring India50 Unique Destinations16|
Akshardham
Temple Delhi
hen one thinks of visiting popular touristy places in Delhi,
names of Red Fort, Qutub Minar, India Gate come to fore
– for their obvious legacy of culture, history and beauty.
However, there is another monument in Delhi NCR, which
is most definitely worth a visit – The Akshardham Temple.
Visit it not for its religious heritage but for its sheer beauty,
magnitude, grandeur and experience.
The Swaminarayan Akshardham Temple, which is the
second of its kind in India, after Ahmedabad, witnesses
good amount of tourist traffic, yet leaving scope for much
more. It comprises 200 sculptured stone figures of India’s
sages, monks, Acharyas and divine incarnations. It also
consists of 234 ornately carved pillars, 9 ornate domes,
Gajendra Pith and 20,000 statues of divine figures of India.
A garden in the shape of a Lotus, which is surrounded
by stones carrying famous quotes of Shakespeare, Martin
Luther, Swami Vivekananda and more, is a breath-taking
sight, especially if photographed from the top. With the
firm believe that good and positive energy can enter the
complex from all or any side, the Akshardham Temple has
10 Gates, which represents the 10 directions according to
Vedic literature.
The Swaminarayan Akshardham Temple in Delhi NCR
holds world-records for many of its intriguing facets, such
as the ‘Yagnapurush Kund’, which is the largest yagna
kund in the world. It comprises 108 small shrines and 2870
steps leading to the kund. The ‘Parikrama’ surrounding the
temple is spread in the form of a beautiful garland and on
a nice breezy day, one would immensely enjoy walking the
path.
The Garden of India or Bharat Upavan, which are the
green lawns of the temple are decorated with bronze statues
of the popular personalities of India and not divine beings.
The real life heroes, whom we all can relate to. A musical
fountain show depicting the circle of life is an added
attraction to the place.
W
When I admire the wonders of a sunset or the beauty of the moon,
my soul expands in the worship of the creator.
Mahatma Gandhi
NEAREST AIRPORT: Indira
Gandhi International Airport,
Delhi
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: New Delhi Railway
Station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR: Family and
friends
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.delhitourism.gov.in
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|19Exploring India50 Unique Destinations18|
Araku Valley
Life is either a daring adventure or nothing at all.
Helen Keller
here are plenty of hill stations in India. Infact, almost every state of the
country is home to few – each more unique than the other, varied in
its offerings and different in its typography. Besieged with enchanting
streams, lush green forests, beautiful waterfalls, sprawling coffee
plantations, rich landscape and wonderful weather, Araku Valley in
Vizag, Arunachal Pradesh is one of the most popular hilly destinations
in the region.
Situated at an altitude ranging from 600-900 m above the sea level,
Araku Valley offers visitors an extremely pleasant climate all through
the year, which makes it one of the most sought after places in the
district. Surrounded by mountains, namely, Galikonda, Raktakonda,
Sunkarimetta and Chitamogondi, the splendour of this place is tough
to put down in words and can be best left to experience. Extremely
rich in biodiversity, coffee plantations and high quality bauxite ore,
these hills are one of the highest in Andhra.
One of the most visited places in the region is the Borra Caves
that are located in the middle of the Ananthagiri Hills in Araku Valley
and are mysterious and majestic. These are completely naturally
formed and are believed to be around 150 million years old. Research
conducted by anthropologists have discovered stone tools of middle
Paleolithic Age that date back to 30,000 to 50,000 years. There are
many crystal white calcium stones which have also taken sculptural
forms. All these shapes create an optical illusion of hidden treasure
as it is illuminated, decorated and glittered by 63 lamps of made of
mercury, sodium vapour and halogen.
Araku, a pleasant hill station, offers plenty of touristy options
for the discerning traveller. The Botanical Garden at Padmapuram,
Government Silk Farm with Mulberry gardens are some of the live
examples to know better the socio-economic conditions of the area.
In addition to hus, the Tribal Museum is also big attraction of the
Araku. Chaaparai, a picturesque place about 15 km from Araku is a
popular picnic spot in this region.
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Visakhapatnam Airport
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION:
Araku Railway Station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR:
Family vacation, couple
vacation, trips with friends
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.tourism.ap.gov.in
T
Andhra Pradesh
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|21Exploring India50 Unique Destinations20|
or many people, the state of Uttarakhand is synonymous with
the names Haridwar and Rishikesh. Those with more religious
bent will add Badrinath and Kedarnath also to it – but the
beauty and lure of Uttarakhand goes far beyond these few
well-known places. Auli, is one such gem, hidden away from the
eyes of a short-sighted explorer and awaiting the discovery of
the discerning traveller, such as you.
Apple orchards, oak trees, pine trees not just provide plenty of
fresh air in Auli but also makes up for its scenic beauty. Located
at a height of 2800 metres above the sea levels, the quaint hill
station of Auli is home to the mountain ranges of Nanda Devi,
Mana Parvat and Kamat Kamet in addition to the few other
religious destinations scattered around the region. The place
is said to have been blessed with the visit of Shankracharya
himself.
But religion is just one of its alluring aspect. The other is
adventure with skiing topping the list. If you too feel the urge of
trying your feet and hands at the ice on the slopes, you need not
to go Alps for it but come down to Auli, stay in one of the many
ski resorts and glide through its snow-capped peaks and slopes.
For the more competitive ones, there is also an Auli National
Skiing Championship, which has just recently started.
Offering breath-taking views of the crescent Himalayas, Auli
also offers plenty of trekking opportunities for the adventure
enthusiasts. The numerous hills of the Garhwal Himalayas are
home to many trekking opportunities, which is again a point of
attraction to the region. The area is dotted with many wooden
huts and resorts, which gives it a look of a quaint European
village.
F
NEAREST AIRPORT:
The Jolly Grant Airport,
Dehradun
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: Dehradun
Railway Station,
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
throughout the year
IDEAL FOR:
Family vacation, couple
vacation, trips with friends
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.uttarakhandtourism.
gov.in
Earth and sky, woods and fields, lakes and rivers, the mountain
and the sea, are excellent schoolmasters, and teach some of us
more than what we could learn from books.
John Lubbock
Uttarakhand
Auli
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|23Exploring India50 Unique Destinations22|
Badami, Pattadakal
& Aihole
Karnataka
Travel makes one modest. You see what a tiny place you
occupy in the world.
Gustav Flaubert
here are some destinations in India, which are inter-linked in such a
way that seeing just one of them is not enough and one needs to visit
them in their entirety to take in its true beauty and significance. The
trio of Badami, Pattadakal and Aihole falls in this category. Situated in
close proximity to each other, the destinations are unique not just in
their offerings but also in the history that binds them together.
When you talk about Badami, what instantly comes to mind are its
Rock Cut Cave temples, which are four in number and breath-taking
in their scenic grandeur. Badami was once the capital of the Chalukya
Empire, who were leaned towards Hinduism and art, as a result of
which, they ended up constructing more than 150 temples of various
styles. There is also a beautiful Agasthya Lake in the region, which is
considered holy because of its healing powers.
At a mere distance of 20 km from Badami is Pattadakal, which
is a UNESCO World Heritage Site and home to many Hindu and
Jain temples. While the trio of Badami, Pattadakal and Aihole are
captivating enough, it is the sophistication and intricacy of Pattadakal
that will enthral you the most. This was the place where the kings
would be crowned and thus always enjoyed a very princely status.
Aihole, which is 10 km from Pattadakal, is once again a temple
complex, which houses the oldest temples in the region. This region
was the capital of the Chalukya Empire, before it got shifted to Badami.
Since it is the most ancient place in the trio, it houses the maximum
number of temples, which showcase the beauty and grandeur of a
bygone era.
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Hubli Airport, Belgaum Airport
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: yaragoppa Railway
Station, Badami Railway Station,
Lakhampur Railway Station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR:
Couples, Friends and family
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.karnatakatourism.org
T

Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|27Exploring India50 Unique Destinations26|
Badrinath
Kedarnath
Uttarakhand
See the world. It’s more fantastic than any dream made or paid
for in factories. Ask for no guarantees, ask for no security.
Ray Bradbury
ravelling for the purpose of religion, often referred to as
‘religious tourism’ is one of the strongest forms of travel in
our country. Numerous people, of all age groups, undertake a
religious trip atleast once (if not more) in a year. Given India’s
rich inheritance of temples and other places of worship, one
is truly spoilt for choice here. In such a scenario, the twin holy
destinations of Badrinath and Kedarnath are often a prominent
feature on many people’s list.
An integral part of the famous ‘Char-Dham’ yatra, the
twin-cities of Badrinath and Kedarnath in the state of
Uttarakhand receives millions of tourists each year, who swarm
the place in hope to catch a glimpse of the divine power. In the
last few years, infrastructure at both the places have improved
manifold, with smooth roads, helicopter services, plush hotels
and luxury camps, all ensuring that the tourist has a soulful and
comfortable experience.
Legend has it that Adi Shankaracharya found the idol of Lord
Badri in the Alaknanda River and put it up in a cave near the
Tapt Kund. Later, in the 16th century, a Garhwal King got the
temple erected, which over the years, has been renovated many
times as a result of natural calamities. Sandwiched between Nar
and Narayan peaks, the beauty of Badrinath Dham is further
enhanced with the glorious background of Neelkanth peak.
The temple of Kedarnath, situated at a distance of 40 km
from Badrinath in the Rudraprayag District of Uttarakhand, has
been recently made more popular amongst the youth basis on
a movie made on it. It is believed that the temple of Kedarnath
was built by Pandavas and that Adi Shankaracharya got the
present structure constructed in the 8th century adjacent to
the old temple site. The grey stone structure is an architectural
marvel because of its imposing design and its ability to survive
for so many centuries in such a harsh terrain.
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Jolly Grant Airport, Dehradun
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION:
Rishikesh Railway Station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
May – October
IDEAL FOR:
Family, Senior Citizens,
Couples
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.uttarakhandtourism.gov.in
T
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|29Exploring India50 Unique Destinations28|
Barren Island
Andaman Islands
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Port Blair Veer Savarkar
Airport
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: Nil
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
November-February
IDEAL FOR: Nature and
adventure lovers, family
vacation
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.andamantourism.
gov.in
We wander for distraction, but we travel for fulfilment.
Hilaire Belloc
arren Island, located in the Andaman Sea at a distance of around
135km from Port Blair in the Andaman Islands, is the only active
volcano in India. It is one those beautiful and rare spots, which
you may not be able to step on, stay or touch, but just watching
its splendor from afar will leave you with memories that will last
a lifetime. This 354-m-high island is the emergent summit of a
volcano that rises from a depth of about 2250 m.
Barren Island, as the name suggests, is a small, uninhabited
3-km wide island, which roughly contains a 2-km wide caldera
along with walls as high as 250-350 m. The morphology of a
fresh pyroclastic cone that was constructed in the center of the
caldera has varied during the course of historical eruptions.
Lava flows fill much of the caldera floor and have reached the
sea along the western coast during eruptions in the 19th century
and more recently in 1991 and 1995. The volcanic eruptions
keep taking place at regular intervals.
The black bedrock of the island lends the sand on the
beach a deep purple-black hue that contrasts beautifully with
the vibrant blue of the ocean and underwater vibrant marine
life, giving an instant appeal to the picture it puts up. While
the existence of this volcano is not a hidden fact and is infact
common knowledge since centuries before, because of limited
research and other restrictions, the island continues to remain
an unexplored mystery.
For those who wish to see it, there are a number of ferries and
boats that can take you around to visit the island. However, due
to the unpredictability of the volcanic eruptions, visitors are not
permitted to land on the shores and have to sustain with a view
from the sea, which is equally memorable and breathtaking.
B
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|31Exploring India50 Unique Destinations30|
Bekal
Kerala
All journeys have secr et destinations of which the traveller is
unaware.
Martin Buber
his is the hidden gem of South India, which has all the ingredients in
place that makes any destination popular on the international tourist
map. The name Bekal has travelled down from Baliakulam, meaning
big palace, to Bekulam and then finally settling to what we call it today.
The place is believed to have once been a seat of power of a big palace,
built as a giant keyhole shaped fort, remains of which are a popular
tourist attraction called the Bekal Fort.
Located on the shoreline of Pallikkara village of Kasaragod, Bekal,
under the sovereignty of Kolathanadu became an important maritime
centre and an important port town of Thulunadu. Over the years, the
place kept attracting many rulers who kept successively attacking and
taking control of the region. The economic importance of the port
town prompted the Jeheri Nayak dynasty to fortify Bekal.
A quaint and serene village, Bekal is a land which has a storied past
– tales of royalty and vigour, remains of which can still be felt and seen
at the popular Bekal Fort. Another popular attraction in the region
is its beautiful shoreline, which offers a perfect sun-kissed beach,
ideal for couples to take a walk or for kids to build a sand castle along
the shore or for a loner to simply sit back and bask in the beauty of a
sunrise or a sunset.
The majestic hills surrounding the area adds more beauty
and regality to the place that you would have ever hoped for. The
meandering rivers along with rich cultural traditions gives the town
of Bekal a special place on the tourist map. The fact that it is not
frequented by tourists in large numbers has only helped in retaining
the erstwhile beauty and significance of a bygone era, which can best
be experienced anytime of the year.
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Mangalore Airport, Calicut
International Airport
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: Kasargod Railway
Station, Kanhangad Railway
Station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR: Friends and
Family Vacation
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.keralatourism.org
T
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|33Exploring India50 Unique Destinations32|
Bhimbetka
Madhya Pradesh
or those who appreciate history, the rock shelters of Bhimbetka,
which are located in the Vindhyan Range in the heart of India,
are a mecca to understand what cave paintings are all about.
Declared as a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 2003, some of the
paintings in these rock shelters date back to as many as 30,000
years and exhibits the earliest traces of human life on the Indian
Subcontinent, which is what we refer to as the Stone Age era.
The numerous paintings – broadly divided into five clusters,
have been broadly classified under periods of Upper Paleolithic,
Mesolithic, Chalcolithic, Early Historic and medieval. Every
era represented through the various cave paintings and period
had its own unique artistic and decorative style. Thankfully, the
paintings have been well preserved because of the dense foliage
surrounding the caves, thus preventing them from exposure to
extreme climatic conditions.
The cave paintings at Bhimbetka has been mainly made
using white and red colours along with the sporadic use of
green and yellow. Studies over a period of time have revealed
that these colours were made with the combination of hematite,
manganese, soft red stone and wooden coal with the occasional
addition of animal fat and leaf extract to the mixture. The use of
such unique combination is perhaps the reason why the colour
has not vanished over the years.
These paintings take us back in time and are often treated as
evidence of the socio-cultural aspects of the earlier civilizations
and ages. They depict scenes such as hunting, dancing, horse
riding – other everyday activities along with popular religious
symbols and animals like bisons, tigers, elephants, lions and
reptiles. Of particular interest are the Auditorium Rock Shelter,
Zoo Rock and Boar Rock in the Bhimbetka Cluster. Experiencing
and seeing them in real life will simply transport you to another
era, which we have heard and read so much about.
F
Our happiest moments as tourists always seem to come when we
stumble upon one thing while in pursuit of something else.
Lawrence Block
NEAREST AIRPORT:
The Raja Bhoj Airport, Bhopal
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION:
Bhopal Junction
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR:
Family and friends
vacation
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.mptourism.com
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|35Exploring India50 Unique Destinations34|
Bishnupur
West Bengal
Man cannot discover new oceans unless he has the courage to
lose sight of the shore.
Andre Gide
hile almost everything in Kolkata reminds you of a legacy – a bygone
era, the quaint town of Bishnupur (or Vishnupur) enjoys the exclusivity
of being the only place named after Lord Vishnu. Located in the
Bankura District of West Bengal at a distance of 130 km from Kolkata,
the culturally rich town of Bishnupur is home to a unique style of
fabric and artefact, which is exclusive only to this region.
Ruled by a line of Hindu Rajas of the Malla dynasty, Bishnupur
developed a unique form of architecture and has perhaps the most
brilliant and detailed terracotta work in Eastern India that has
withstood the ravages of time. The Terracotta tiles depict stories from
Ramayana and Mahabharata. The Temples like the Shyam Ray Temple,
the twin shrines of Jorbangla and the Rasmancha are a must visit.
With a rice cultural legacy dotted with historical excellence, the
small town of Bishnupur is also a prominent spot for people who are
looking for unique and authentic designs – in both fabric as well as
Jewellery. The Terracotta handloom and Baluchari sarees, which are
famous all over India are actually native to this land and can be found
in the numerous shops dotting the region. No two designs or layout
would be similar – spoiling a customer for choice.
The pottery, artefacts and even Jewellery, made of Terracotta and
found in Bishnupur is unique to the region and difficult to find in any
other part of the country. Bishnupur is also famous for the School of
Hindustani Music which flourished under royal patronage along with
the Bishnupur School of Painting. This style of music is still being kept
alive in local academies of music.
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Imphal Airport, Netaji
Subhash Chandra Bose, Kolkata
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: Bishnupur Railway
Station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR:
Family and friends vacation, long
weekend getaways
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.wbtourismgov.in
W
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|37Exploring India50 Unique Destinations36|
Brahmaputra
River Cruise
Guwahati
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Guwahati Airport
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: Guwahati
Station, Kamakhya Jn.
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR:
Couples, friends and
families
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.tourism.assam.gov.in
here are many rivers that flow in India but only some of
them are suitable for carrying out ‘cruise activity’, such as the
Brahmaputra River. It runs for 1800 miles from its source in the
Tibetan Himalayas to the delta in the Bay of Bengal, passing
many states and cities on its route. The mighty Brahmaputra is
the lifeline of the city of Guwahati and divides it into two halves.
What is also unique about Brahmaputra in Guwahati is the
cruise option it offers for the locals and tourists both.
Small experiential cruises are offered by the Assam Tourist
Department as well as few private operators for the enjoyment
of the local people as well as tourists coming to the region. There
are different types of short cruise rounds that you would love
to go for such as Lunch Cruise, Sunset Cruise, Dinner Cruise,
Candlelight Cruise etc. Onboard one of the miniature cruises,
guests can enjoy cool breeze on the deck, live music, nice food,
serene views and a brief narration on the history and mythology
related to this part of the mighty Brahmaputra River.
In addition to the short cruise options, tourists and locals
can also choose to go on long duration cruise trips, such as
those ranging from 4 to10 days on the Brahmaputra River. Some
cruises cover the Kaziranga National Park and Nameri National
Park, World Heritage Sites, and Majuli, one of the largest riverine
islands in the world along with Guwahati. Some of the cruises
plying on the Brahmaputra River feature visits to attractions such
as wildlife viewing, village walks, visits to tea gardens, exploring
country towns in cycle rickshaws, barbecues on deserted river
islands, dance performances, and visits to craft workshops.
The ideal time to take a Brahmaputra River Cruise is during
the season from November to April, when the monsoon rains
are over and the floods have receded, leaving the landscape lush
and temperatures pleasant.
T
Our happiest moments as tourists always seem to come when
we stumble upon one thing while in pursuit of something else.
Lawrence Block
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|39Exploring India50 Unique Destinations38|
Brahadeeswara
Temple
Thanjavur, Tamil Nadu
Travel expands the mind and fills the gap.
Sheda Savage
ne of the oldest temples in the Group of Chola Temples, the
Brahadeeswara Temple was built in the year 1010 AD – 10 centuries
back and is dedicated to Lord Shiva as Nataraja – the King of cosmic
dance. While the main temple stands the way it was built, several
additions have been made to the complex over the years, which have
only added to the beauty and grace of this monolithic structure that is
also a UNESCO World Heritage Site.
Over the years, series of wars between the Muslim invaders and
the Hindu rulers caused great damage to temple. However, the Hindu
dynasties that ruled the land after this phase repaired the temple and
added several shrines to the main temple. The significant shrines of
Kartikeya (Murugan), Parvati (Amman) and Nandi are from the 16th
and 17th century, during the rule of Nayaka era. The Dakshinamurti
shrine was added much later.
In their attempt to cover-up the damage, the succeeding rulers
did paintings on the walls, which today are a great example of the
Chola Paintings on the walls of massive colonnaded prakara, corridor
(circumambulatory pathway) around Brahadeeswara Temple.
Another unique things about this temple is that here the gopurams
(the gates) are smaller than the main Vimana (temple tower), which is
not the case in most of the temples in South India.
The entire Brahadeeswara Temple is made of granite, which is also
a noteworthy thing as in those times, there was no granite-cutting
quarry or even sources to get the stone around Thanjavur –atleast not
up till 50 km. Just imagine how the task of sourcing the granite from
afar and carrying it to the temple site would have been carried out
almost 10 centuries back! Thus, this temple must be visited to not just
say a prayer but also experience and witness its grandeur and poise.
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Civil Airport, Tiruchirappalli
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: Thanjavaur Junction
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR:
Friends and Family
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.tamilnadutourism.org
O
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|41Exploring India50 Unique Destinations40|
Chitrakote
Falls Chhattisgarh
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Raipur Airport or
Visakhapatnam Airport
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: Jagdalpur Railway
Station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR: Family, Couples,
Adventure Enthusiasts
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.tourism.cg.gov.in
ondly called as the Niagara Falls of India, the Chitrakote Falls is a
gift from nature and a spectacular sight to one’s eyes. Waterfalls
are anyway a delight to watch and as one gazes at them in
awe, you realise the power and glory of nature, which can be
witnessed through these gushing streams of water in high speed
and momentum from a great height. One of the widest waterfalls
in India, it is located 38 km from Jagdalpur and is accessible only
by road.
Flowing from 95ft above with intense force, the falls are a
treat for eyes and senses. Located in Jagdalpur of Bastar district
on Indravati River, Chitrakoot Falls attracts thousands of tourists
throughout the year. With wild swirling eddies and a roar that
can be heard for miles, these falls have an untamed character
that evokes equal amounts of fear and awe. The large amount of
silt in the Indravati River during the monsoon makes the water
quite muddy and swimming is out of the question. The Falls are
surrounded by a surfeit of resorts, camping sites, picnic spots,
yoga and meditation centres.
Not only waterfall, Chitrakote is also popular due to the
Hindu legendary Lord Ram. There has many Hindu spiritual
temples and pilgrimage place. And also various Hindu festivals
like, Makar Sankranti, Ramnaamvi and Somvati Amavasya are
celebrated here with a complete spiritual system.
The state of Chhattisgarh is blessed with some amazing
eco-tourism destinations and the Chitrakote Falls is one of
them. It is an ideal place for picnics, getaway and stunning
panoramic views, which offers plenty of opportunity to click
good pictures. One can spend some time in isolation away from
the commotion of the cities for detoxification amidst nature.
F
The biggest adventure you can take is to live the life of your
dreams.
Oprah Winfrey
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|43Exploring India50 Unique Destinations42|
Coonoor
Karnataka
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Coimbatore International
Airport
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION:
Coonoor Railway Station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR:
Couples, family and friends
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.karnatakatourism.org
n the polluted cacophony of everyday living, where the desire to
see star-lit skies and breathe in fresh air has become a dream for
many, it is refreshing to have a hill spot closer to the populous
city, offering a perfect breakaway option for many. Coonoor is
located at a distance of 18 km from Ooty, 71 km from Coimbatore
and 32 km from Mettupalayam and is a popular choice for the
youth of not just South India (primarily Bengaluru) but also
those across the country.
Located at an altitude of 6,000 feet above the sea level,
Coonoor is the second largest hill station nestled in the Nilgiri
Hills and can be coupled along with Ooty if time permits you
to visit two hill stations. Known as the lungs of the South, the
greens spread across the region can help detox any person who
is tired of the city traffic, pollution and mundane routine. The
wide-spread lush Tea Gardens not just make for an amazing trip
but also offers enriching flavour to carry back home.
Sim Park – a well-maintained botanical garden spread over 12
hectares houses many unknown and unheard varieties of plants.
In addition to this, Dolphins Nose, St. Catherine Falls and Law’s
Falls are some of the popular places to see in the region. For
the adventurous lot, the Trekking Trails to Lamb’s Rock, which
is 9 km from Coonoor is an experience worth undertaking. The
Lam’s Rock overlooks the Coimbatore plains and offers splendid
views of the tea and coffee plantations.
Bird watching is a popular activity enjoyed by the locals and
visitors alike in Coonoor. The region houses unique variety of
birds such as thrushes, babblers, larks, cuckoos, robins, vultures,
eagles and song birds. A major fruit and vegetable festival is
held in the month of May at the Sim’s Park which draws a major
crowd. The tea and tourism festival is another important festival
of Coonoor held in the month of January. The festival attracts
tea specialists from all over the world.
I
He who climbs upon the highest mountains laughs at all
tragedies, real or imaginary.
Friedrich Neitszche
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|45Exploring India50 Unique Destinations44|
Dalma Wildlife
Sanctuary
Jharkhand
Only those who will risk going too far can possibly find out
how far they can go.”
T.S. Eliot
he state of Jharkhand has much to offer in a variety of segments,
including the travel and tourism contributions, which can be found in
abundance in the region. A popular one amongst them is the Dalma
Wildlife Sanctuary, which is best known for forest tourism and wild
elephants – both of which can be found in abundance in the state.
Lying in the catchment area of Subarnarekha River and adjoining
Purulia District of West Bengal, this wildlife sanctuary is spread over
an area of 193.22 sq km.
The forests here at the Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary comprises
mostly Dry Mixed Deciduous with few Dry Peninsular Sal, the main
tree species being Terminalias, Jamun, Dhaura, Kendu, Karam etc.
The sanctuary is very much favoured by the Elephants primarily
because of availability of water, even during summer. ‘Dalma Haathi’
or the ‘Elephants of Dalma’ is a known and quite fearful term in the
Jamshedpur-Puruliya region. Other animals in addition to elephants
include Leopard, Barking Deer, Mouse Deer, Sloth Bear, Monkey,
Giant Squirrel are abundant here.
Established in 1975 and inaugurated by Sanjay Gandhi, the Dalma
forest is home to a horde of animals, birds and tree species as well.
Overlooking the shimmering Subarnarekha River, the Dalma hills
nestle the dense green forests like an offspring. This ambience of the
forest and the odd chance of having a glimpse at the wild animals is
what makes Dalma so special among those who love to travel around
jungles.
For those who wish to experience adventure in its most natural
habitat can either take a drive through this Sanctuary or better still can
spend a night at the various rest houses and bamboo huts accommo-
dation offered by the Forest Department. Dalma Wildlife Sanctuary
offers excellent bird watching experience, exciting in-jungle lodging
and spectacular view from atop the Dalma peak which also has a
couple of temples you can visit.
T
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Jamshedpur Airport (Sonari)
NEAREST RAILWAy STATION:
Chandil Railway Station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
October – June
IDEAL FOR:
Friends and Family
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.jharkhandtourism.gov.in
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations46|
Patratu
bout 40 kilometres from Ranchi, the state
capital of Jharkhand, Patratu is quietly nestled
between lush forests and winding roads at an
elevation of 405 meters. Known for its Patratu
Dam, which was constructed under the
planning of the legendary Indian engineer, Sir
Mokshagundam Visvesvaraya, this picturesque
valley town, full of unexplored untrodden trails
is a must-visit for any adventure and nature
lover.
Along with exploring the beauty of its
forests and lush greenery, Patratu Dam is a
sight to watch in all its glory. It supplies water
to Ramgarh cantonment area and act as the
main reservoir of Patratu Thermal Power Plant
(PTPS). The Nalkari River on which it proudly
stands is major tourist destination. Bird
watchers and nature lovers can enjoy calm and
peaceful boats rides for hours. It is said that one
can see flying fishes during sunrise by sitting at
the coast of the Dam.
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Ranchi Airport
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: Ranchi Railway Station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR: Family Vacations
& Nature Lovers
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.jharkhandtourism.gov.in
Jharkhand
Special Feature
A
VIKASH NAG
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|49Exploring India50 Unique Destinations48|
Dausa
Rajasthan
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Sanganeer Airport
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: Dausa Railway
Station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR:
Family and friends
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.tourism.rajasthan.gov.in
ausa district, situated on NH 11 enroute from Jaipur to Agra, is
spread over an area of 3400 sq km and lies at 333m above the
Sea Level. Dausa is primarily known for its fertile soil that allows
almost any type of crop to grow in it. The region, surrounded
by Alwar, Karauli, Sawai Madhopur, Tonk, Bharatpur and Jaipur
with the Northern Aravali ranges safeguarding the climate from
the Thar Desert, was the first-ever headquarter of the former
Kachhawaha Dynasty.
With much historical and archaeological significance
attached to it, Dausa offers the ideal rural experience for a
tourist who wishes to get a taste of authentic village experience
in Rajasthan. The Sawa and Ban Ganga are the two rivers that
run through the district and there are around 36 Dams that have
been built around these rivers to store the river water. The region
also has many micro servicing units related to agricultural
equipment and submersible pump.
The people of Dausa are a culturally enriched lot who love
to celebrate numerous festivals throughout the year with
much vigour and enthusiasm. There are many places to visit
in the Dausa district, such as Kalakho, Bhangarh, Bhandarej,
Harshata Mata Temple, Chand Baoli and Fort Madhogarh. Each
monument or place of tourist interest has a story to narrate
and is visually extremely appealing to the travellers visiting the
region.
Though Dausa has a long way to go in terms of beefing up its
infrastructure, especially in areas of health and education, the
region, with its easy going set of people, is ideal for a day visit for
tourists who wish to see the rural life of Rajasthan and get a taste
of culture tourism. Meeting and chatting with the local people
and visiting the touristy attractions of the place will give you an
insight into how every little town of Rajasthan is bubbling with a
historical legacy, which deserves a mention.
D
Take the time to put the camera away and gaze in wonder
at what’s there in front of you.
Erick Widman
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|51Exploring India50 Unique Destinations50|
Dholavira
Gujarat
All journeys have secret destinations of which the traveller is
unaware.
Martin Buber
ndia is a land that houses some of the oldest civilisations of the world,
thus to witness some of those is an extremely fascinating experience.
Dholavira, some 250 km from Bhuj in Gujarat is home to the
remarkable excavations of the Indus Valley Civilisation. This historical
site will enthral you as any other scenic destination would, especially
if you happen to have a love for history.
The excavations, which happened some 4500 years ago, even today
hold the charm to invite numerous tourists who swarm the place to
take a trip down history and witness evidence of what they have only
read in the books. Locally called Kotada timba, the site is the second
largest Harappan site in India and fifth largest in Indian sub-con-
tinent. Amongst the Harappan sites discovered so far, Dholavira is the
only place that marks the presence of Harappan culture from 2900 BC
to 1500 BC.
One of unique features of Dholavira is that unlike other Harappan
cities of Harappa and Mohenjo-daro, the city is built almost exclusively
of stones instead of bricks. Another striking feature of the ancient city
was its sustainable use of water resources. The wisely planned and
constructed network of reservoirs and water channels allowing the
successful harvest of rainwater and diversion of rivulets, exemplifies
the ingenuity of the Harappan people inhabiting the city.
For the locals, Dholavira is an ideal weekend destination, which
is not too far from the Rann of Kutch and the government too is now
developing the site into a major tourist destination. For those looking
for an additional attraction other than history, there is also the option
of visiting the Kutch Desert wildlife sanctuary while in rustic land of
Dholavira.
I
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Bhuj Airport
NEAREST RAILWAy STATION:
Dholavira Station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR:
Family and friends
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.gujarattourism.com
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|53Exploring India50 Unique Destinations52|
Divar Island
Goa
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Goa Airport
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION:
Karmali Station, Thivim
Station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
February – April and
October – December
IDEAL FOR:
Friends and Couples’
vacation
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.goa-tourism.com
he island of Divar is one of the best kept secrets of Goa. Lying
along the shores of the Mandovi River, this quaint island is home
to a unique blend of cultures and people. It is not an island
frequented much by tourists expect for that time of year when
two major festivals take place here – Bonderam and Potekar.
Bonderam is a carnival that takes place every fourth Saturday
of August while Potekar is like Halloween, which is celebrated
three days before Lent and is a sight to behold as one watches
people walk around with masks and bells!
The best way to reach Divar Island is through a Ferry ride. The
southern end of the Island is connected with the Old Goa while
the northern end is linked to the Naroa Village. The Naroa village
is frequented by many people for a visit to the Saptkoteshwar
Temple, which is one of the most sacred temples of Hindus in
Goa. Those in Panaji who wish to visit the Mayem Lake can
enjoy a picturesque shortcut offered by the Divar Island.
If you too have visited Goa multiple times and are in search for
something new and unique, a day trip to Divar Island, especially
during the Bonderam Festival celebrated on the last Saturday of
August, will showcase a captivating and blissful side of the state.
This hidden treasure of Goa offers you a perfect getaway, quaint
and romantic, away from the rush and noise of city life.
Divar is divided into three villages – Piedade, Malar and
Naroa; the largest of which is Piedade. The ruins of Kadamba
Dynasty in Piedade is a sight that will surely take you back in
time, leaving memories that will last a lifetime. Next to see is the
famous Sao Mathias Church, which is a 400-year old Portuguese
church at the heart of the village. This beautiful structure plays
an integral part during the Bonderam Festival.
T
Do not follow where the path may lead. Go instead where
there is no path and leave a trail.
Ralph Waldo Emerson
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|55Exploring India50 Unique Destinations54|
Gokarna
Karnataka
Every man can transform the world from one of monotony
and drabness to one of excitement and adventure.
Irving Wallace
f a peaceful beach holiday is what you are looking for, away from
the bustling crowds and cacophony of city populous, Gokarna –
the ancient temple town located in the Uttara Kannada district of
Karnataka is the ideal destination for you. Often rated as the favourite
beach destination by many enthused travellers, the peaceful town of
Gokarna, which means ‘Cow’s Ear in Sanskrit, is a perfect hideaway,
nestled at a safe distance from the maddening city.
The town of Gokarna lies between the rivers Gangavali and
Agnashini and is situated along the Karwar coast by the Arabian
Sea. Gokarna also finds mention in the Shrimad Bhagawat Purana.
This temple town is also called the Kashi of the South and has been
attracting numerous pilgrims for hundreds of years. Gokarna is also
an important centre of Sanskrit learning and houses Bhandikeri Math
and Toggu Math. Many Hindus perform the last rites of their loved
ones here.
Given its pristine beaches and mythological significance, this
trend has divided Gokarna into two parts, one that is for the religious
devotees who come to seek blessings of Shiva, and the other of the
carefree tourist looking for some peace and quiet in nature’s lap.
Owing to its growing popularity, several hotels and restaurants have
come up in Gokarna. Most accommodation is in thatched bamboo
huts along the town’s several stretches of blissful coast. The temple
town is now an emerging beach destination that offers something to
different types of tourists with its natural beauty and its history seeped
in mythology.
So if a beach holiday has been on your mind for some time but
you have been postponing it because of crowded spaces, high-priced
resorts and bustling shorelines, visit Gokarna to enjoy an ideal beach
vacation. Though it is getting popular among the beach lovers, the
town somewhere still falls in the category of lesser known holiday
spots in India.
I
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Dabolim Airport
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION:
Ankola Railway Station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR:
Friends and Family
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.karnatakatourism.org
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|57Exploring India50 Unique Destinations56|
Gopalpur
Odisha
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Bhubaneshwar Airport
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: Berhampur
Railway Station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR:
Friends and Family
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.odishatourism.gov.in
ecuring an important place in the history, the tiny town of
Gopalpur with its sea port was the bustling centre of trade and
commerce in the Colonial Era. Located in the southern coastline
of Odisha just 15 km from the city of Behrampur, Gopalpur is
an ideal beach destination for a relaxing holiday and for those
looking to spend some quality time with their loved ones.
The sea port today is largely in ruins but the beaches are
truly a sight to behold. The beaches of Gopalpur are considered
to be one of India’s most beautiful beaches largely due to its
remoteness, its peace and its offbeat crowd. The beaches are
sparkling gold which along with the azure water of the Bay of
Bengal provide a perfect place to relax and immerse yourself
in nature. Besides the beach, the food is also pretty great in the
town with many outlets offering a plethora of options.
Gopalpur was the place where the first ever modern hotel
was built in Odisha and probably the first ever beach resort
of the country. The Palm Beach Resort was built in 1914 by an
Italian gentleman by the name of Signor Maglioni to cater to
the merchants and businessmen. The hotel was bought by the
Oberoi group of hotels in 1948 in what was the group’s first
venture into the hospitality business. Currently the hotel is
owned by the Mayfair Group of Hotels.
Since the beach here is east-facing, it offers spectacular
views of the Sunset and the Sunrise – whatever you prefer. Silver
Filigree or Tarakasi as it is locally known in Orissa is one of
the finest and most exquisite craft works. While Cuttack is the
main centre of Silver Filigree work in Orissa, smaller shops in
Gopalpur also sell Silver Filigree souvenirs to carry back home.
For the sea food lovers, a walk along the fish market early in the
morning will prove to be pure delight.
S
We travel, some of us forever, to seek other states, other lives,
other souls.
Anaïs Nin
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|59Exploring India50 Unique Destinations58|
Hemis
Ladakh
Travelling tends to magnify all human emotions
Peter Hoeg
here are no dearth of touristy places in Jammu and Kashmir, each
prettier than the other. The charm, the charisma and the lure of the
place, the scenic beauty along with a pleasant climate makes the valley
a popular tourist destination all through the year. Amongst its many
treasures, Hemis deserves a special mention and a visit next time you
make a plan to visit the state.
Hemis is a popular tourist attraction given the number of options
that is provides to its visitors. The primary attraction in the region is
the Hemis Gompa, which is located 40 km south-east of Leh on the
west bank of the Indus River. The Monastery, situated on top of a green
hill is surrounded by breathtaking mountains, offering a captivating
view with its beauty and serenity. The Hemis monastery was built in
1630 and belongs to the red sect, Brokpa.
One can also visit the Hemis National Park, which is popularly
known as the Snow Leopard capital of India and is home to a variety of
other animals such as langurs, wolves, marmots, deers, red foxes etc.
The park, infact, has been identified as a Snow Leopard reserve under
a project launched by the Central Government aimed at conserving
the species, its prey base and its fragile mountainous home.
Another attraction to the region is its annual festival, which
is celebrated to commemorate the birth anniversary of Guru
Padmasambhava. The festival is held for two days in the months of
June-July, enlivening the courtyard of the monastery. The festival
of dances, where good triumphs over evil in a colourful pageant, is
also the annual ‘bazaar’ where Ladakhis from remote areas buy and
sell wares. Besides its other attractions, Hemis is also popular for
activities such as trekking, where one can make the most of the royal,
widespread and pristine scenic surroundings.
T
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Leh Kushok Bakula Rimpochee
Airport
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: Jammu Tawi
Railway Staiton, Kalka
Railway Station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
May-September
IDEAL FOR:
Friends, family, couples and solo
travellers
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.jktourism.jk.gov.in
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|61Exploring India50 Unique Destinations60|
Imphal Valley
Manipur
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Bir Tikendrajit International
Airport
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION:
Dimapur Railway Station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR:
Family, Couples, Adventure
Enthusiasts
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.manipurtourism.gov.in
hough Imphal, as the capital of Manipur is a bustling town
surrounded with beauty, its best kept secret is the serene
Imphal Valley, which is a treasure trove of natural bounty. The
Imphal Valley is a rejuvenating retreat far away from the mad
complexities and deafening cacophony of the urban settlement
and is extremely engrossing. Such is its lure that people from far
and wide frequent the place in search of solitude, magnificence
and peace.
The Imphal Valley is spread across an area of 1843 sq km and
accounts to one-tenth of the area of Manipur. The Valley also
accounts for 70 per cent of the population in the state. Some of
the rivers that flow down to the Valley are Imphal River, Khuga,
Iril, Thoubal and Sekmai. There are numerous lakes, swampy
areas and marshes in the Valley but the most famous of the
lakes in the area is the Loktak Lake, which is also known as the
‘Floating Lake’.
The Loktak Lake is known to be the largest freshwater lake in
north-east India. It is a major tourist attraction in the region and
people from all age groups visit the spot in large numberS only
to leave back with lifetime memories. Besides this, one can also
indulge in an excursion to the Palace of Kangla. The Kingdom
of Manipur in the bygone days had its royal seat in the Palace of
Kangla, which even today is a visual delight as it is surrounded
by an artificial lake and houses many historical and religious
places inside it.
Manipur is one of the most culturally rich regions in the
North East, an example of which is the way fairs and festivals
are celebrated in the state. A variety of festivals are celebrated
amidst the riot of colours in Imphal, such as, the Leela Festival,
Lai Haraoba, the Ratha Jathra, Ningol Chakouba Festival and
Cheiraoba Festival.
T
The most beautiful in the world is, of course, the world itself
Wallace Stevens
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|63Exploring India50 Unique Destinations62|
PRiDe PLaZa HoteL
aeRoCitY, neW DeLHi
The Pride Plaza Hotel, standing
tall in the heart of Aerocity, New
Delhi resonates true Indian
hospitality, by following the
ideology of “Truly Indian, Traditionally
Luxurious and Purely Pride “.
The Pride Plaza is the first luxury
hotel in the capital by The Pride Group
of Hotels. The beautiful hotel houses 385
majestically designed opulent rooms
which are well equipped with premium
amenities and contemporary technology
to serve the best for the comfort of the
guests. Within a short span of time the
Pride Group has positioned itself as
an eminently successful chain with
fully owned Hotels in Ahmedabad,
Bengaluru, Chennai, Kolkata, Pune and
Nagpur and also manage hotels at Goa,
Jaipur, Vadodara, Indore, Puri, Manali,
Mcleodjang and Rajkot.
The intoxicating fragrance of tuberose,
along with the soothing time honored
Indian instrumental music and the
humble “Namaskar” greetings of the staff
welcomes the guests benevolently to the
beautiful vicinity of the Pride Plaza. The
stunning paintings by Krsnaa Mehta,
renowned as a designer to the stars and
farmers, placed all over the hotel, gives a
resplendent, luxurious touch to the first
impression of the Plaza. Retaining the
essence of being the first traditional
hotel in Aerocity, New Delhi, Pride Plaza
proudly hoists the tricolor flag of our
nation. The palatial rooms are decorated
with the magnificent monumental
images of India. The most striking
aspect of the lovely images highlighting
the beauty of the country is that they are
absolutely authentic. Being a quintes-
sential traditional hotel, the Pride Plaza
offers its guests a host of opportunities
to feel at home and relish the true Indian
treats in the form of home-made jams,
pickles, conventional ‘chaats’ in buffet,
the relaxing welcome drink, tamarind
candies, hot water bottles amongst
many others. All these features are a part
of the fabulous Five Senses Programme
to ensure that the Plaza marks an
everlasting impression in the lives of
their guests.
In order to achieve complete guest
satisfaction the Pride Plaza Hotel has
also initiated a guest centric system
where every team member is well
trained to meet a guest’s expectation
and contribute to creating a lasting
impression. All external and internal
calls are received at the Pride Services
desk for centralized and smooth
communication.
The hosts of dining options
available are a paradise for food
lovers who wish to experience
the refinement of bona fide Asian
recipes or relish the aromatic
flavors of cosmopolitan cuisine.
The 24 hours dining restaurant –
Café Pride, the seasonal poolside
barbeque restaurant Aqua Grill,
the Pan-Asian restaurant – Oriental
Spice and Mr. Confectioner – the
patisserie offers an array of confec-
tionaries and bakery products. Designed
with enticing décor, the lounge bar,
Stallion lets one unwind after a long day
with refreshing cocktails, mocktails and
world-class beverages. What’s more, for
a dose of tranquility and relaxation, one
can head to Spa, the wellness center
featuring a fully-equipped fitness
center.
The Pride Plaza hotel, with all its
eminent features from Five Senses
Programme to the one point
contact programme, collectively
contribute to making it a
traditionally luxurious and a
truly Indian hotel.
Special Feature
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|65Exploring India50 Unique Destinations64|
Kailasa Temple
Maharashtra
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Aurangabad airport
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: Aurangabad
Railway Station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR: Family and
Friends
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.maharashtratourism.
gov.in
here wouldn’t be any who wouldn’t have heard of the famous
rock carvings found in the Ajanta and the Ellora Caves in India.
But there is another hidden gem, tucked at a mere distance of
30 km from Aurangabad in Maharashtra – the Kailasa Temple at
Ellora. This 16th century structure is one of the 32 Cave Temples
in Ellora but it is definitely the most striking and the memorable
one.
The Kailasa Temple, which shares striking resemblance to
the Virupaksha Temple in northern Karnataka, was believed to
have been built by the 8th century Rashtrakuta King Krishna I
between the year 756 and 773 AD. Further, the non- Rashtrakuta
style temples, located close, by denotes the involvement of
Pallava and Chalukya artists. This rock temple is undoubtedly
the largest monolithic structures in the world.
What is most unique about the Kailasa Temple is that it is
carved out of a single rock! Yes, all of it was a singular stone at a
point, which was hollowed out into what we know as the Kailasa
Temple. The temple, it is believed, was built for Lord Shiva and
was supposedly designed to mimic the Mount Kailash. The
pyramidal structure of the main temple is said to represent the
shape of Mount Kailash.
A little climb will take you to the top of the temple and view
from there is simply breath taking. The magnitude of it all will
surely leave you impressed. The sculpture of Ravana trying to lift
Mount Kailash is a definitive landmark in Indian Architecture.
There are multiple sculptures around, and like the sign at
the entry says, each of them have a definitive legacy. It is also
believed that more than 400,000 tons of rock were scooped out
to build the Kailasa temple in Ellora caves. It is larger in area
than the Pantheon in Greece.
T
To move, to breathe, to fly, to float, To gain
all while you give, To roam the roads of
lands remote: To travel is to live.
Hans Christian Andersen
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|67Exploring India50 Unique Destinations66|
Kanatal
Uttarakhand
You don’t have to be rich to travel well.
Eugene Fodor
ocated at a high altitude in the suburban area of Mussoorie on the
main Chamba – Mussoorie road, Kanatal is a serene and picturesque
hilly town that offers solace and peace from the maddening rush
of the city. With picture perfect sceneries and plenty of greens, this
quaint town has much to offer in terms of recreation and adventure to
the discerning traveller visiting the region.
Popularly served as a weekend getaway for the local populous,
Kanatal is a picture perfect hub that boasts of heavenly scenery,
luxuriant vegetation, and bountiful adventure activities. If you are
looking for a holiday with solemn peace but wouldn’t really mind a
bit of fun as well, take a trip to Kanatal – away from the urban hassles.
Besides stunning natural beauty, there are a number of interesting
things to do in Kanatal as well.
The destination also offers plenty of adventure opportunities and
is often chosen as a favourite spot for campers. You can take a walk
through the Kodia Jungle, which is a dense forest area located at a
distance of around one kilometre away from Kanatal. You can spot a
few wild animals by taking a ride through the jungle in a jeep, and
you can also see Tehri Dam and many natural springs that are quite
prevalent in the region.
Not just summers, Kanatal is also best enjoyed during the
winter months as it experiences good amount of snow – making it
a destination perfect for celebrating a White Christmas or a Snowy
New Year. There are many places that you can visit during your trip to
Kanatal and the Surkanda Devi Temple is the most popular religious
destination, situated at a distance of around 10 km from Kanatal.
Thus, be it for adventure, religious or just a getaway into the quiet and
beautiful place – Kanatal can be your perfect getaway to soend some
quality time with your loved ones.
L
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Jolly Grant Airport, Dehradun
NEAREST RAILWAy:
STATION: Dehradun Railway
Station, Rishikesh Railway
Station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR:
Weekend getaway with friends
and family
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.uttarakhandtourism.
gov.in
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|69Exploring India50 Unique Destinations68|
Konark Dance and
Music Festival
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Biju Patnaik International
Airport, Bhubaneswar
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: Puri
BEST TIME TO VISIT:
November to February
IDEAL FOR: Family, couple
and friends’ vacation
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE
www.odishatourism.gov.in
ndia is a country widely known for its rich cultural heritage
and legacy. However, with the course of time, efforts are being
made to preserve the various unique forms of arts and culture
of the country. One such initiative in this direction is the Konark
Dance and Music Festival, which was started in the year 1986 at
the Konark Natya Mandap by its Founder-Director Padmashree
Guru Gangadhar Pradhan.
The sole aim behind this festival is to bring in many artistes
into its cultural family and creating of international cultural
amity and brotherhood. This festival has established its own
unique identity in the sense that eminent artistes of national
and international repute participate and perform Odissi,
Kathak, Bharatnatyam, Kuchipudi, Manipuri, Mohiniattam and
other classical, folk and tribal dances/music of our country on
the enchanting stage of the Natyashala in the monumental Sun
Temple, Konark.
To understand the true essence of the Konark Dance and
Music Festival, it is vital to attend one. The stage and the
atmosphere is magnified by the spiritual and aesthetic flavour,
in the natural ambience of casuarinas and cashew trees. An
annual affair, the festival is always held in the winter months
and the dates for the three-day festival are decided much in
advance. Watching the unrivalled talent from different parts of
the world perform Kathak, Odissi, Mohiniattam, etc. is a sight
to behold.
An added attraction to this annual festival is that along
with the classical dances, a fair is also organised on the
side-lines, which displays handmade items, handicrafts and
stalls specialising in different cuisines of India. The fair adds a
special charm to the colourful dance festival and people visiting
the festival of other part of the country or world can take back
some authentic souvenirs. Also, the festival serves a wide array
of delectable cuisines, making it a perfect venue for a joyful
experience at Konark.
I
Once a year, go someplace you’ve never been before.
Dalai Lamaa
Odisha
Madhumita Raut
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|71Exploring India50 Unique Destinations70|
Kushinagar
Uttar Pradesh
Travel is never a matter of money but of courage.
Paolo Coelho
uddhism is a path of practice and spiritual development leading to
insight into the true nature of reality. For people who follow Buddhism
as a way of life, Kushinagar, near Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh, is
the holy place where Lord Buddha attained his salvation or the
Mahaparnirvana. It is one of the must-visit destinations for people
practicing Buddhism and is also a popular tourist site.
From Buddhist followers to the Indian devotees, this is one of the
major pilgrimage destinations in Uttar Pradesh. Referred to as the
Kushinara in ancient period, the city is a storehouse of architectural
marvels. Archaeological excavations have unearthed a number of
temples and Stupas which belonged to medieval India. Kushinara was
earlier part of the Malla kingdom and its popularity spread all over
because of Lord Buddha.
Another major tourist attraction in Kushinagar is the Nirvana
Temple. It was near this temple that Lord Buddha passed away and
thus it houses a tall statue of Lord Buddha. The Mathakaut Temple
in Kushinagar is also one of the important tourist places in Uttar
Pradesh. It is in this place, the archaeologists discovered a black stone
image of Lord Buddha which was called the ‘Bhumi Sparsha Mudra’.
The last sermon of Lord Buddha was delivered over here.
The Watt Thai Temple, which is a Japanese temple, is one of the
most visited temples in Kushinagar. Along with it, the Chinese temple
with Oriental design and décor also attracts plenty of tourists. Every
year, on the occasion of Buddha Purnima, there is a month’s long fair in
Kushinagar, where one can buy a variety of artefacts and souvenirs to
take back home. Although this shrine is related to Mahatma Buddha,
the surrounding area is Hindu dominated, which is why during fair
time, many people from around the place participate with complete
reverence and perform puja and worship in various temples.
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Gorakhpur
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION:
Ramkola & Gorakhpur Railway
station
BEST TIME TO VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR:
Family and friends
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.uptourism.gov.in
B
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|73Exploring India50 Unique Destinations72|
Lachung
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Gangtok, Bagdogra airport
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: New Jalpaiguri
BEST TIME TO VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR:
Family and friends
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.sikkimtourism.gov.in
small mountain village located at a distance of about 120
km from Gangtok, Lachung is a quaint hub brimming with
scenic beauty and natural splendour. From an adventure
enthusiast to a honeymoon couple, there is something in
store for everyone visiting this destination. Once in Lachung,
you will immediately fall in love with this small pretty town
that has much to hold a tourist captive for numerous days.
A breath taking Himalayan village, nestled in the lap
of North Sikkim, Lachung is an epitome of scenic beauty
peppered with tall dark mountains, gushing waterfalls,
striking fruit orchards and meandering glacial rivers. You
can be a vacationer, a honeymooning couple, a nature lover,
a photography geek or an adventure aficionado, Lachung
will hold you captive with its beauty and send you back with
memories that will last a lifetime.
Travellers who are up for some adventure in Lachung,
would be spoiled for choice in this town, thanks to its numerous
offerings. The ‘Zero Point’ also known as ‘Yumesamdong’ is
a popular trekking destination that leaves every adventure
junkie with some thrilling and breath-taking vistas of nature.
For true adventure lovers, ‘Mt. Katao’ sits as a must visit place
and which is sure to leave them enthralled with never-ending
fun of snow-boarding, skiing and snow-tubing. However,
prior permission from the Indian Army is a must for visiting
Mt. Katao.
Lachung, meaning ‘Small Pass’ houses the beautiful
Lachung Monsatery (or gompa), which is decked with
wonderful wall murals and also several ancient statues. The
monastery holds religious dance on 28th and 29th day of the
10th Buddhist month (December). When in Lachung, one
must also visit the Carpet Weaving Centre where you can
see the local ladies weaving exquisite woollen carpets. The
Shingba Rhododendron Sanctuary is also a place of tourist
interest in the region.
A
Two roads diverged in a wood and I took the one less
travelled by.
Robert Frost
Sikkim
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|75Exploring India50 Unique Destinations74|
Manas
National Park
Assam
Tourists don’t know where they’ve been, travellers don’t know
where they’re going.
Paul Theroux
atching Wildlife in their natural habitat is as soothing as watching
the waves’ splash in an ocean or basking in the sun on a cold day.
While there is no dearth of wildlife options in India, it is indeed unique
how each state of the country in varied in their offering of the same.
One such reserve is the Manas National Park in Assam, North East,
which is home to some of the most unique and exotic wildlife species.
Manas, at the base of foot hills of the Bhutan-Himalayas in the
state of Assam, North East, with unique biodiversity and landscape
is one of the first reserves included in the network of tiger reserve
under Project tiger in 1973. About the half of the Park is covered by
Grasslands of Terai and Bhabar type and most areas have colonising
grasslands and woodlands of several species. There are more than
650 species of Angiosperms alone. The commonly seen trees are the
Simul, Oxi, Sissoo, Khaie, Gamari, etc.
Manas National Park is the only place that has been marked as a
biosphere reserve, a natural heritage site, Project Tiger Reserve, and
Project Elephant Reserve all at the same time. Located in the foothills
of the Eastern Himalayas, the park is flanked by the giant Manas River
separating it from Royal Manas National Park in Bhutan. Home to
the Royal Bengal Tiger and Wild Buffaloes, it offers you a myriad of
activities to appreciate the diversity of the region.
The park is open every day from the period of November to April,
which is also the best time to visit it mainly because the weather is
pleasant and there is higher probability of spotting more fauna. The
park is partially opened in the months of May and October. Since June
to September is the monsoon period, the park remains closed. The
main attractions of forest are Leopard, Tiger, and Panther.
W
Tourists don’t know where they’ve been, travellers don’t know
where they’re going.
Paul Theroux
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Guwahati airport
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: Barpeta Road
BEST TIME TO VISIT:
April to November
IDEAL FOR: Family, friends and
solo travellers
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE
www.tourism.assam.gov.in
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|77Exploring India50 Unique Destinations76|
Mandu
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Indore, Devi Ahilya Bai
Holkar
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: Ratlam Junction
BEST TIME TO VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR: Family and
friends
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.mptourism.com
adhya Pradesh, the heart of India, is brimming with touristy
offerings, so much so that a vacationer is truly spoilt for choice.
Perhaps, this is why some of its most prized jewels are lost in the
bouquet of options and not given their due prominence, despite
having all the ingredients of a popular tourist attraction. One
such place is Mandu, which is now slowing gaining prominence
on the tourism map of MP.
Mandu or Mandavgad is a ruined city, which is celebrated
for its fine architecture, created during Malwa period. Located
in the Dhar district of Western Madhya Pradesh, Central India,
Mandu provides various impressive views of lakes, waterfalls,
and incredible monuments, to lure tourists to visit the region.
The region is an epitome of architectural excellence that our
ancestors seemed to have achieved. This city is testament to
the unconditional love between Prince Baz Bahadur and Rani
Roopmati. Mandu also boasts of the oldest erected monument
of India.
The city of Mandu is adorned with spell-binding Afghan
architecture surrounded by baobab trees, native to Africa.
The grand palaces are still alive with royal romance while the
gateways (darwazas) speak of a history of imperial conquests.
A walk through Mandu will leave you awe-struck, the way you
used to be listening to stories from grandparents.
Floating over its own reflection, the Jahaz Mahal in Mandu
looks like a ship that’s about to sail. However, for centuries,
this ship, made of stone and mortar never did. Instead, it stood
floating over the twin lakes, bearing a silent witness to Mandu’s
long, rich and varied history.
There are several places to visit in Mandu, such as, palaces,
mosques, Jain temples of the 14th century and other buildings
and the oldest mosque here dates from 1405. The finest of
them all is Jama Masjid, which is a unique piece of Pashtun
architecture. Some of the buildings in this region are recognized
by UNESCO World Heritage Site, including Rupmati’s Pavilion,
which is one of the most popular tourist attractions in Mandu.
M
Travel far enough, you meet yourself
David Mitchell
Madhya Pradesh
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|79Exploring India50 Unique Destinations78|
Nalanda
Remains
Bihar
The real voyage of discovery consists not in seeking new
landscapes but in having new eyes.
- Marcel Proust
UNESCO World Heritage Site, the Nalanda Remains is a landmark
destination for those who follow Buddhism as a way of life and for
those who don’t, it is a unique destination which is a storehouse of
historical significance. Evidence shows that Nalanda was a learning
centre in the early 5th to the 7th century BCE. According to sources,
Gautam Buddha gave away lectures in a close-by mango grove called
Pavarika and saviour Jain Thirthankara and Mahavira also stayed at
Nalanda for about 14 rainy seasons, thus validating the existence of
the place to the time period mentioned.
Nalanda, which was once a large Buddhist monastery, now in ruins,
was one of the most publicly acknowledged Mahaviharas of ancient
India located in ancient Magadha kingdom (modern Bihar). The
place today not only boasts of being one of the most revered Buddhist
tourism sites in India but also continues to draw attention of scholars,
historians and archaeologists from across the world.
The Tibetian Lama Taranatha of the 17th century mentioned that
a huge temple was constructed at the site of chaitya of Shatiputra at
Nalanda by the great Indian emperor of the Maurya Dynasty, Ashoka
who later embraced Buddhism. Taranatha also stated that Nagarjuna,
a 3rd-century CE luminary and Mahayana philosopher remained
chief of the institution while his contemporary, another luminary
Suvishnu constructed around 108 temples in the area.
The Great Stupa, the Nalanda Archaeological Museum and the
Nalanda Multimedia Museum are the other attractions in Nalanda.
With a host of several stupas, monasteries, temples and chaityas
built by the Gupta Kings, Ashoka and Harshadhana, Nalanda is a rare
combination of outstanding achievements in institution-building,
site-planning, art, and architecture, Nalanda symbolised the
multiplicity of knowledge production, the innovative processes of
the organised transmission of ideas through education, and a shared
heritage of people living in multiple regions of Asia. The new Nava
Nalanda Mahavihara, constructed in 1951 and dedicated to the
research and study of Buddhism and Pali Literature is a new stopover
for guests visiting Nalanda.
A
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Patna
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: Rajgir
BEST TIME TO VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR:
Friends and Family
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.bstdc.bih.nic.in
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|81Exploring India50 Unique Destinations80|
Netarhat
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Ranchi Airport
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION:
Ranchi Railway Station
BEST TIME TO VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR:
Family and Nature lo vers
OFFICIAL STATE
TOURISM WEBSITE:
www.jharkhandtourism.
gov.in
f one were to closely see and examine the tourism treasures that are
in bounty here, one would realise that the tourism potential of the
state of Jharkhand remains highly unexplored. From hills to forests
to falls and dams; from mines to temples to caves and springs, the
region has it all – in plenty and flourishing in its natural habitat.
One such hidden jewel is the quaint town of Netarhat, which is
even touted as the ‘Queen of Chhota Nagpur’.
Encircled by low hills, forests and hilly springs, Netarhat nestles
like a secret refuge in the heart of Jharkhand. Once home to several
tribes, the hills caught fancy of the British rulers who converted
it into a hill station and also gave it its popular title - ‘Queen of
Chhota Nagpur’. However, with time, the hill station has moved far
beyond its colonial days and in today’s time is known for its natural
beauty and a public residential school, which was opened in 1954.
Tales ranging from birth of Hanuman to that of unrequited love
will colour your visit to naturally beautiful Netarhat, which is also
a popular weekend getaway from Ranchi, the state capital, about
150 km away by road. Reaching Netarhat from the plains is part of
the fun. The rolling hills are covered with sal, palash and mahuwa
trees. The steep hill road (‘ghat’ road) cuts through the forests, runs
past some sharp bends, finally flattening into a plateau on which
perches Netarhat at a height of 1,250 metres, amidst cypress and
pine trees. Upon reaching, a huge gate welcomes you to the town.
The hills surrounding Netarhat are dotted with hilly springs
and waterfalls. The Upper Ghagri waterfalls is located at a distance
of about 6 km from Netarhat while the lower Ghagri is at another
4 km away from here. The area has many orchards growing pears
(nashpati). To reach both the waterfalls, you will have to leave
the car behind and walk through the forest, which is also an
adventurous walk full of beauty amidst abundant natural flora and
fauna.
Besides the waterfalls, while in Netarhat, one can also visit the
popular Sunrise Point to enjoy spectacular views of the rising Sun
and take a tour of the famous Betla National Park, which is home
to many wild animals.
I
Without new experiences, something inside of us sleeps. The
sleeper must awaken.
Frank Herbert
Jharkhand
MARIAN KISPOTTA
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|83Exploring India50 Unique Destinations82|
Neemrana
Fort-Palace
Rajasthan
Nothing lasts forever, except the day before you start your
vacation.
Gayland Anderson
assion was the force driving two indefatigable travellers on the roads
of Rajasthan, Francis Wacziarg and Aman Nath, the founders of the
Neemrana Hotels. Today Neemrana stands as a paradigm of heritage
conservation, and is an epitome of grace, simplicity and luxury, giving
you a glimpse into authentic India.
What was first spotted in 1977 as a vast and splendid ruin of the
Fort Palace of Neemrana has since become synonymous in India as
a foremost example of architectural restoration-for-reuse. The brand
has been continuously focussed on restoring India’s past historical
wonders into modern day heritage hotels, which can give a true picture
about our culture, heritage and values to the discerning traveller.
Neemrana Fort Palace takes a lot of pride in being a premier
heritage hotel of Rajasthan as also a unique hotel of India. Special
care has been taken in ensuring that these time-honoured structures
are restored and preserved with authenticity to take you back to the
medieval times. This awe-inspiring heritage hotel near Delhi Jaipur
highway is a perfect destination for your regal vacation in Jaipur.
This 15th-century heritage hotel in Rajasthan is among the most
popular resorts near Delhi for weekend breaks and is ideal to invent
your own past at the dream site of history. Nine palace wings built over
14 levels tiered into a hill across 2.5 hectares/6 acres of garden-palace,
make this heritage hotel one of the best places to stay near Jaipur.
Hanging gardens, two pools to swim out to the horizon, an Ayurvedic
spa, and India’s first zip-line is what the world comes to experience!
P
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Indira Gandhi International
Airport, Delhi
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION:
Alwar Railway Station,
Rajasthan
ACCOMMODATION:
74 rooms & suites
BEST TIME TO VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR:
Family Holidays & Couple Stay
OFFICIAL WEBSITE:
www.neemranahotels.com/
fort-palace-neemrana/
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.tourism.rajasthan.gov.in
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|85Exploring India50 Unique Destinations84|
Nubra Valley
ne of the pristine and unexploited destinations from the Northern
India, Nubra Valley is a gift from the heaven above. Though it is a
remote area but it was never segregated and the destination enjoys
a good tourist footfall. The place catches a lot of enthusiasm from
trekkers. Nubra Valley has a lot to offer to tourists from around the
world and one will never go insatiated from here.
Nubra Valley is a high height desert land in Ladakh with a lack
of vegetation except for river banks. Known as the Orchard of
Ladakh, Nubra Valley, is an absolute paradise for an avid nature
admirer. It offers breath taking scenery, with green oasis villages
surrounded by thrillingly stark scree slopes, and harsh arid
mountains, strongly reminiscent of Pakistan’s Northern Areas.
There are sand dunes, monasteries, and a ruined palace and – at
Turtuk and Bogdang – a whole different culture (Balti) to discover.
It is not just scenic natural beauty of Nubra that attracts
tourists. The valley is predominantly Buddhist and boasts of
several centres of Buddhist learning. Ensa, Samstemling, Diskit
and Hunder monastery are famous Buddhist monasteries. The
Nubra Valley is often also regarded as the Orchard of Ladakh,
which is a major trade Centre for horticultural crops, Pashmina
wool and woollen textiles. Moreover, it’s famous for producing
fruits such as walnuts, apples, almonds, apricots, and staple crops
like barley, wheat, etc.
Surrounded by the Himalayas, summers are pleasant and
winters are harsh in the Nubra Valley. Overall Ladakh experiences
extremely cold climate throughout the year. During winters, the
entire valley looks like the scene of the moon and in summer
loaded with greenery. The best time to visit is in the hotter summer
months from June to August, when one can relish the chilling
Himalayan Mountains.
O
To awaken quite alone in a strange town is one of the
pleasantest sensations in the world.
Freya Stark
Jammu and Kashmir
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Leh Kushok Bakula
Rinpoche Airport
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION:
Jammu Tawi Station
BEST TIME TO VISIT:
April to June and
September to October
IDEAL FOR:
Friends and solo travellers
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.jktourism.jk.gov.in
To awaken quite alone in a strange town is one of the
pleasantest sensations in the world.
Freya Stark
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|87Exploring India50 Unique Destinations86|
Orchha
Madhya Pradesh
Don’t tell me how educated you are, tell me how much you
have travelled.
Mohammed
he historical and cultural town of Orchha enjoys a prominent place on
the tourism map of central India. Situated on the banks of the Betwa
River, Orchha was once the capital of one of the largest and most
powerful kingdoms of Central India – the Bundela rulers. The Bundela
Rajput chieftain, Rudra Pratap had founded the city that went on to
become home to many forts, palaces and temples, which continues to
attract visitors till date.
Orchha highlights the magnificence and splendour of the Bundelas.
Snuggled in the lustrous Bundelkhand countryside, this beautiful
place is bestowed with natural beauty and grandeur. It’s a must visit
destination that gives a delightful experience to leisure travellers. A
small sleepy village encircled by a woody forest looks more beautiful
with its majestic temples and garish monuments. In Orchha, you will
be spoilt for choices regarding what to see and what not to.
Any visit to Orchha is incomplete without visiting the famous fort
complex called Orchha Fort. The Fort comprises three main palaces
within it called Raj Mahal, Jahangir Mahal and Rai Parveen Mahal
– each having a story and history of its own. The Orchha Fort is the
centre of the heritage and cultural legacy of the region and is visited by
tourists in large numbers all through the year. Here Lord Rama is not
treated as God but a King.
Up next, the Chaturbhuj temple at Orchha has its own unique
charm. Built on a massive rock platform opposite to the Raja Mahal,
this temple was constructed by Raja Madhukar in the 16th century
and is an abode of Lord Vishnu. There are a good number of steps to
climb in order to reach the temple but the view from the top is simply
breath taking. Besides these, the cluster of the Chhatris along the
Kanchana Ghat of the Betwa River is another imposing and attractive
features in Orchha, which date back to the 17th and 18th century.
T
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Gwalior Airport
NEAREST RAILWAy STATION:
Jhansi Railway Station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR:
Family vacation, couple vacation,
trips with friends
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.mptourism.com
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|89Exploring India50 Unique Destinations88|
Panchmarhi
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Bhopal Airport and
Jabalpur Airport
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: Pipariya and
Bhopal Railway Station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR:
Family vacation, couple
vacation, trips with friends
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.mptourism.com
he state of Madhya Pradesh is most popular for its temples, caves
and wildlife. While there is no dearth of touristy options in the
area, every region has a best-kept secret, tucked away from the
cacophony of everyday life and offering the perfect solace, which
is much-needed in today’s hectic life. Panchmarhi, by virtue of
being Madhya Pradesh’s only hill station, is the state’s best offering
for those who are looking to spend some quality time with nature.
A large plateau surrounded by lofty hills of the Satpura range,
Panchmarhi, standing at an altitude of 1067 m is a land full of greens
and deep ravines, which makes an unconquerable combination
for any nature lover. A land that is home to more than 65 water
falls, each more beautiful than the other, Panchmarhi has plenty
to offer to the adventurous youth, who are not happy just gazing
at the beauty and want to try their hand at some sports and fun
activities also.
The town of Pachmarhi has an interesting connection with
history. Legend has it that the year that Rani of Jhansi and her
Maratha soldiers declared Mutiny, a rather ordinary English officer
who had a way with words, was sent to the dense Satpura jungles
to quell a rebellion. After walking for 17 miles, Captain Forsyth
of the Bengal Lancers found himself 2000 feet above the sea and
a saucer-shaped plateau spread out before him and this is how
Panchmarhi was discovered.
Recognised as a UNESCO Biosphere Reserve, the vegetation
of Panchmarhi has changed over the years paving way for denser
forests and greener banks. The destination is famous for its ancient
caves, monuments, waterfalls, natural beauty, forest and the flora
and fauna. Some of the must-see places include Handi Khoh, Jata
Shankar Cave, Pandava Caves, Apsara Vihar, Bee Falls, Duchess
Falls and more. An ideal sunset is best enjoyed in Panchmarhi.
T
We live in a wonderful world that is full of beauty, charm and
adventure. There is no end to the adventures we can have if
only we seek them with our eyes open.
Jawaharlal Nehru
Madhya Pradesh
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|91Exploring India50 Unique Destinations90|
Panipat
Haryana
Live life with no excuses, travel with no regret
Oscar Wilde
anipat, the textile city of India, is situated in the heart of Haryana
and is one that holds immense importance in the history of India.
It is perhaps the only place where the history took shape within its
borders. Historical connection along with its numerous monuments
is what marks Panipat as an important tourist destination. Forts,
temples, museums, Panipat has everything in store catering to all kind
of tourists.
For those who wish to read the narratives of what happened during
the battles in Panipat, the best option is to visit the Museum, which
is one the major attractions in the vicinity. The museum also houses
some of the must see pieces of contemporary art and craft belonging
to the bygone era. Occupying a glorious place, in the history of India, it
is said that, at the time of battle of Mahabharata, out of the five villages
which were demanded by the Pandavas from Duryodhana, “Panipat”
was also one of them.
If art and craft fascinates and interests you, then Panipat is just the
right place for you to satiate your travel taste buds. As many as three
battles were fought in the city that gave it a historical significance in
true sense. The area is dotted with monuments and places of great
historicsl significance and legacy.
Also called as the city of weavers, Panipat manufactures textiles
such as darri, carpet mat, table cover, bed sheet, bed cover, curtain etc.
which are exported to Canada, Japan, Germany and Australia. The city
has developed over a period of time and has unlimited employment
opportunities to offer. Not only from Haryana but businessmen,
engineer, weavers and labourers from other states of India as well visit
here in search of employment and settle here permanently.
P
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Indira Gandhi International
Airport, Delhi
NEAREST RAILWAy STATION:
Panipat Junction
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Winter Months
IDEAL FOR:
Family vacation, couple
vacation, trips with friends
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.haryanatourism.gov.in
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|93Exploring India50 Unique Destinations92|
Patan
Gujarat
If you wish to travel far and fast, travel light. Take off all your
envies, jealousies, unforgiveness, selfishness and fears.
Cesare Paves
ujarat is a treasure trove of tourist offerings no matter where you go.
From its tiniest of towns to its big posh cities, each destination has
a bouquet of attractions of varied nature that are enough to keep a
traveller hooked for long. One of the lesser known amongst the lot is
the historic town of Patan, which is situated at a distance of 130 km
from Ahemdabad and which was once of the Rajputana state before
independence.
Patan, an ancient fortified city, was founded in 745 AD by Vanraj
Chavda, the most prominent king of the Chavda dynasty. He named
the city “Anhilpur Patan” or “Anhilwad Patan” after his close friend and
Prime Minister Anhil Gadariya. Today, Patan is celebrated the world
over for its exquisite Patola silk sarees besides numerous places of
interest to visit and festivals to celebrate.
Not many of you would know that the famous ‘Rani ki Vav’ – a
stepwell, which is also a UNESCO World Heritage Site is featured on
the new 100 rupee note of India. This historical place with over 1500
intricate sculptures, big and small is a unique step-well that is an
exquisite example of world-class craftsmanship in the bygone era. The
stepwell was built as a memorial to an 11th century AD King Bhimdev I.
There are as many as 100 and more temples in Patan dedicated to
various gods including a number of Jain temples. The most famous of
these are Mahavir Swami Derasar in Dhnadherwad and Panchasara
Derasar. In addition to this, there are other five jinalayas in this
complex. Also worth seeing is the Sahasralinga Tank or Sahasralinga
Talav, which is a medieval artificial water tank in Patan, Gujarat. It was
commissioned during Chaulukya (Solanki) rule and is a monument of
national importance protected by the Archaeological Survey of India.
G
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Ahmedabad Airport
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: Patan Railway
Station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR:
Family vacation, couple
vacation, trips with friends
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.gujarattourism.com
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|95Exploring India50 Unique Destinations94|
Patna Sahib
Bihar
Travel and change of place impart new vigour to the mind.
Seneca
akht Sri Harmandir Ji, Patna Sahib Gurudwara is birth place of the
10th sikh Guru named Shri Gobind Singh Ji Maharaj. This famous
Gurudwara is situated at the north-eastern part of Patna on the banks
of the holy river Ganga. Commemorating the 10th Guru of Sikhs, Shri
Guru Gobind Singh, the Gurudwara has both historical and religious
significance in the lives of many people.
Being one of the holiest pilgrimages for the Sikh community, Patna
Sahib witnesses a massive tourist footfall from all regions, religions
and beliefs. One can actually connect directly with the Almighty here
in the serenity and calmness of the Gurudwara remaining spiritually
motivated. The grandeur of the Gurudwara can be seen in the glittery
marble building, which is the epitome of Sikh architecture.
Takht Sri Harimandir Sahib is the principal shrine at Patna Sahib
and one of the five Takhts or the highest seats of religious authority
for the Sikhs. It also marks the site of the Chhoti Sangat. The present
five-storey building was constructed during 1954-57 through kar-seva.
The sanctorum representing the room where Guru Gobind Singh was
born has a circumambulatory passage around it. Adjacent to it is
the spacious high-ceilinged congregation hall. The arch of the door
of the inner sanctum opening on the congregation hall is covered
with gilded copper plates embossed with floral design matching the
marble sculpture on the interior walls. Of the three canopied seats
facing the hall, the central one has Guru Granth Sahib (holy book
of the sikha) seated on it. The relics preserved here include a pair of
wooden sandals, an old gown, several weapons and hukamnamas.
The months of winter from October to February make an ideal
time to visit Patna Sahib Gurudwara. Also, in December the birthday
of Guru Gobind Singh Ji is celebrated with much pomp and pride,
attracting the maximum number of visitors.
T
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Patna Airport (Lok Nayak
Jayaprakash Narayan
International Airport.)
NEAREST RAILWAy STATION:
Patna Railway Junction
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR:
Family vacation, trips with friends
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.bihartourism.gov.in
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|97Exploring India50 Unique Destinations96|
Ponmudi
here is plenty to see in God’s own country. From hill stations to
temples, beaches and more, the state is flushed with natural
bounty, offering a traveller plenty of options to choose from. So
if you want to experience a holiday, where the greens are a shade
greener, air a degree cleaner and environs extremely soothing,
without the hustle bustle of thronging tourists, visit Ponmudi, a
quaint hill station in Kerala.
Situated at a distance of 60 km from the capital Trivandrum,
Ponmudi is located at an altitude of 600 m above the sea level
and is often regarded as the ‘Golden Peak’ of the South. For all
adventure seekers, the destination has much to offer in the form
of adventure sports such as trekking, rock climbing, mountain-
eering, etc. Tourists here can go on long leisurely walks along the
meandering roads that wind up the hill. This beautiful hill station
offers breath taking scenic views and is also home to many natural
springs that helps keep the valley lush green.
The hill station of Ponmudi houses lush and full tea gardens
that make it a picture perfect location. The view from the cottages
and resorts up the hill at Ponmudi is breath taking and it feels as
though time has left this place untouched. The quaint place is also
an ideal picnic spot least haunted by tourists and therefore the
most peaceful of all Kerala hill stations. Embellished with rapids
flowing over the road, and misty peaks thronged by an exotic
vegetation, the hill station of Ponmudi is a hikers and trekkers
paradise. Ponmudi offers to soothe your work worn mind and
body to rejuvenation. One can hike through the slopes of tea
gardens to watch the pickers at work or just fascinatingly observe
fish in the emerald waters of the Kallar River to make the most of
the Ponmudi hill station.
T
Travel makes a wise man better, and a fool worse.
Thomas Fuller
Kerala
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Thiruvananthapuram
International Airport
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: Thiruvananthapuram
Central Railway Station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR:
Family vacation, trips with
friends, couple vacation
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.keralatourism.gov.in
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|99Exploring India50 Unique Destinations98|
Rann of Kutch
Gujarat
The use of travelling is to regulate imagination by reality, and in-
stead of thinking how things may be, to see them as they are.
Samuel Johnson
hough the place has been fairly publicised and talked about on various
platforms by Gujarat Tourism, the destination still has huge potential
to receive more visitors who would like to see and experience a unique
region. World’s largest salt desert measuring about 10,000 sq km, the
region here is divided into two distinct areas -- the Great Rann and the
Little Rann -- each offering different experiences. The former is best
known for its spectacular landscapes, while the latter destination is a
hub of wildlife and salt farming.
Kutch, which means “intermittently wet and dry”, is a unique
destination for its distinctive feature of staying submerged in water
during the monsoon season and then drying up to become this white
salty plateau during the winter months. Given the tempestuous
climate, most travellers visit the Great Rann in winter for the best
chance to see the lunar-like landscapes. There is nothing more
breath taking than to watch these white expanse of lands during a full
moon-lit night – a sight that will leave you with memories to last a
lifetime.
The Rann of Kutch region is also home to a range of ecologically
rich wildlife such as the flamingos and the wild ass that can be spotted
around the desert often. Rann is also a part of a few sanctuaries such
as the Indian wild ass sanctuary, Kutch desert wildlife sanctuary etc. It
is a paradise for wildlife photographers and nature enthusiasts alike.
A popular time to visit the place is during the Rann Utsav,
organised by the Gujarat Tourism from November to February, each
year. A temporary city with hundreds of luxury tents is set up near
the Gateway to Rann Resort at Dhordo along with rows of food and
handicraft stalls.
It is a Carnival of Music, Dance, natural beauty of White Rann and
much, when visited under the full Moon. Kutch Rann Utsav is the
shimmering landscape that gives the enchanting moments of this
Fest, which feels like ‘Heaven on Earth’ during festival time.
T
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Bhuj Airport and Ahmedabad
Airport
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: Bhuj Railway
station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR:
Family vacation, couple
vacation, trips with friends
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.gujarattourism.com
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|101Exploring India50 Unique Destinations100|
Sadda Pind
culture of multi-hued heritage of ancient civilisations, full of high spiritedness
and compassion, with its diversity reflected in its fine poetry, spirituality, artistry,
cuisine, traditions and over-the-top festivity in heart-warming dance genres like
giddha, bhangra, jhumar, sammi, Punjab, earlier known as Sapt Sindhava is a land of
celebration, gaiety, merriment, revelry and jubilance.
It may take a lifetime to soak in the beauty, culture, tradition, euphoria and
high spirits (literally) of Punjab but for Sadda Pind, an exquisite Punjabi living
museum which offers an exceptional opportunity to experience rich authentic culture,
colours and flavours of Punjab’s traditional village at one place. Nestled in the divine
city of Amritsar and not very far from, Golden Temple, Sadda Pind has recreated a
typical Punjabi village in all its glory with great attention to detail. Spread over 12
acres and marked by Punjab’s vibrance and tradition, it showcases the lifestyle in a
pre-Independence Punjabi village.
As in a Pind (village) of earlier times, it is amusing to see the real
brick-and-stone houses of the sarpanch, zamindar, nambardar, sunar,
kumhar, lohar, kissan, and tangewala. They have been decorated with
authentic rustic interiors featuring the life of a rural artisan. Interestingly,
the whole village including the guest rooms have been adorned with
antique objects, motifs which have been thoroughly sourced from
interiors of Punjab to reflect the rusticity of a traditional village.
Its baraat ghar and the village haveli are the places to witness the
soulful musical culture of Punjab where folk songs and dances are
performed all day. The display of folk dances like bhangra,
jhumar, kikli, gidda, and musical instruments like nagara,
gagar and tumba represent the endless energy of Punjab. From
blacksmiths, potters, weavers and host of artisans displaying
their work and products like juttis, clay toys, phulkaris, durries,
parandis, hand-made shawls, and agricultural implements,
Sadda Pind is in true sense a celebration of Punjabi culture. Not
to forget, Sadda Pind also offers special culinary experience
with authentic Punjabi food like Makki Di Roti, Sarson da
Saag, Kadhi Chawal, Rajma Chawal, Amritsari naan & chole,
lassi, traditional thali and much more.
There are so many traditional activities and experiences
for the guests to enjoy including kids that everyone feels
engrossed and immersed in an era gone by. It is precisely
the reason that so many heads of countries have visited
this cultural milieu including Prime Minister, Narendra Modi,
Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and former Mauritius President Ameenah Gurib.
A
A Portrait of Punjab
NEAREST AIRPOT:
Sri Guru Ram Das Jee
International Airport, Amritsar
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION:
Amritsar Junction
BEST TIME TO VISIT:
Throughout the year
ACCOMMODATION:
20 Spacious Guest Rooms
IDEAL FOR:
Family & Couple Vacations
OFFICIAL WEBSITE:
https://www.saddapind.co.in
OFFICIAL STATE
TOURISM WEBSITE:
http://punjabtourism.gov.in
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|103Exploring India50 Unique Destinations102|
Shekhawati
hen we think of Rajasthan, images of culturally rich cities,
lavish palaces, havelis, royal houses, heritage museums
immediately come to our mind. This is because the region
is blessed with abundant tradition, which has for years been
attracting visitors who come to see the place and get a taste of
royalty. Shekhawati, though small in size compared to its other
counterparts, also does not disappoint a tourist who has come
in search of majestic offerings and opulence seeped with history.
The sprawling old havelis of Shekhawati are an architectural
marvel that were built between the late 18th and early 20th
centuries by local Marwari merchants, who had migrated to
the port cities of Mumbai and Kolkata to seek their fortunes.
With a touch of British influence and urban inspiration, their
homes, over the years, grew increasingly grand, reflecting
their newfound wealth and social status. These havelis like
the Bhagtonki haveli, Anadilalpoddar haveli, Khedwal Bhawan
and others are one of the main attractions in the region today.
These mural paintings are an expression of the artisanship of
yesteryear Rajasthani people.
Nawalgarh, a small town in Shekhawati region is known as
‘the land of Havelis’. The charming place features two grand
havelis – Morarka Haveli and Podar Haveli, which have been
transformed into museums and are definitely must a visit.
Besides, this, you can see the Sethani Ka Johara, which is one
of the finest reservoirs that holds water from one monsoon
to the next and fascinates several animals, birds and Nilgais.
Kanhaiyalal Bagla Haveli is also a popular attraction.
Sikar, which is home to a plethora of outstanding temples
and havelis like Bansidhar Rathi Haveli, Ram Chokhani Haveli,
Kedia Haveli, Sanganeria Haveli, Mirijamal Kyala Haveli, the
Jeen Mata temple and Radha Murli Manohar temple is a popular
attraction in the region. When in Shekhwati, you must not forget
to visit the Ratnagarh Fort. This 18th century fort boasts of many
monuments, striking gateway and a clock tower.
W
Focus on the journey, not the destination. Joy is found not in
finishing an activity but in doing it.
Greg Anderson
Rajasthan
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Jaipur International Airport
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: Jaipur Railway
station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
barring peak summer
months
IDEAL FOR: Family
vacation, couple vacation,
trips with friends
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.tourism.rajasthan.gov.in
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|105Exploring India50 Unique Destinations104|
Shravasti
Uttar Pradesh
A good traveller has no fixed plans and is not intent on arriving.
Lao Tzu
hravasti, located at a distance of 160 km from the state capital of
Lucknow is an important place in the Buddhist circuit in India. Legend
has it that Shravasti is one of the eight sites that are known as “The
Eight Great Places” or Attha-mahathanani for the Buddhist followers.
These include Lumbini, Bodh Gaya, Sarnath, Kushinagar, Shravasti,
Rajgir, Sankassa and Vaishali. Thus for those who follow Buddhism or
have adopted it as a way of life, Shravasti is a landmark place to visit.
It is said that Shravasti is also known as the place of Twin Miracle
since Lord Buddha showed his supernatural abilities in performing
miracles here. The destination is closely associated with the life of
Gautama Buddha because this is the place where Lord Buddha stunned
the non-believers with a million fold manifestation of himself, seated
on the thousand-petaled lotus and emanated fire and water from his
body and thus Shravasti became popular as it experienced the Twin
Miracle.
It is also widely believed that Shravasti was one of the most
developed cities in ancient India and was the capital city of the
Kingdom of Kosala. Besides its Buddhist significance, Shravasti is also
an important centre for the believers of Jain religion since Sobhanath
Temple is believed to be the birthplace of Tirthankara Sambhavanath
of Jainism.
There is much to see and explore in Shravasti. The Jetavana
Monastery is one of the most famous Buddhist monasteries of India.
It is the second monastery that was donated in respect to Lord
Buddha. The Place of Twin Miracle is the place where Lord Buddha
is believed to emanated fire and water out of his body and the place
where Twin Miracle took place. Another must-see in the Shobhanath
Temple, which is an old temple located at Shravasti, dedicated to Jain
Tirthankara and is quite popular among Jain people.
S
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Lucknow Airport
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: Lucknow Junction
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR:
Family vacation, couple
vacation, trips with friends
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.uptourism.gov.in
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|107Exploring India50 Unique Destinations106|
Somnath
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Rajkot Civil Airport and
Aerodrome at Diu
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: Veraval Railway
Station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR:
Family vacation, trips with
friends
OFFICIAL STATE
TOURISM WEBSITE:
www.gujarattourism.com
ujarat has a wide bouquet of offerings of varied nature for the
discerning traveller to choose from. Be it temples, forests,
national parks, deserts or monuments – the region has it all.
One of its most popular temple place is Somnath Temple
that is visited by millions of people every year who come to
say a prayer, bask in the beauty and take in the serenity that
the place has to offer.
Somnath Temple is a significant temple comprising one
of the twelve Jyotirlingas of Lord Shiva. Located in Prabhas
Kshetra near Veraval, Somnath Mandir falls in Saurashtra
region that lies on the western coast of Gujarat. The temple
stands as a symbol of rich cultural heritage of India and
finds its mention in the popular scriptures like ‘Rig Veda’ of
the Hindu origin. The term Somnath suggests ‘the protector
of Moon God’. Lord Shiva is depicted here in the form of a
Jyotirlinga (linga of light), as the protector. The temple is
also called as ‘the Shrine Eternal’ since the temple has been
shattered six times and successfully resurrected every time.
The seven-storied structure of Somnath is almost 155
feet tall and has been constructed in the Chalukya style
of architecture. The temple reflects the expertise of the
Sompuras that are master masons of Gujarat. The temple
is sited in such a manner that no mass of land can be seen
from Somnath seashore up till Antarctica. This information
is presented in an inscription, written in Sanskrit on the
Arrow-Pillar of the sea-protection wall at the temple.
Somnath, primarily a temple town, is one of those places
where a strong scent of religion and legends lingers around
tourism and even daily life. However, it also offers beaches,
museums and other attractions, such as, Gita Mandir,
Balukha Tirtha, Kamnath Mahadev Temple and the famous
Somnath Museum.
G
The important thing is not to stop questioning. Curiosity
has its own reason for existing.
Albert Einstein
Gujarat
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|109Exploring India50 Unique Destinations108|
Spiti Valley
Himachal Pradesh
Bizarre travel plans are dancing lessons from God.
Kurt Vonnegut
ou may have seen it in movies and held your breath every time you
did for such is the effect of its spell-binding beauty. Monasteries,
landscapes, culture, there is so much in the region and you would
want to extend your stay in the region from sure. Spiti Valley, at an
altitude of 12,500 feet above Sea Level, is the most important centre of
Buddhism in Himachal and the monasteries here are a favourite with
the Dalai Lama himself.
Spiti is bordered by Ladakh in the north, Tibet to the east, Kinnaur
to the south east, and the Kullu Valley to the south. The term Spiti
means ‘The Middle Land’, as it separates India from Tibet. Scantily
populated, Spiti is a haven for adventure lovers as there is so much
they can indulge in while staying here. There are a number of trekking
trails that tourists can choose from and almost all of them start from
Kaza (Spiti’s capital from where you make your base camp) to various
peaks from where you can get panoramic views of the Himalayan
Mountains.
Besides trekking, another beautiful adventure is the Chandra Taal,
which is located at an altitude of 4300 m and offers picture-perfect
setting for photographers and nature lovers a like. This crescent
shape lake, located near Kunzum is one of the best places to visit in
Spiti valley in the summers. The colour of the lake keeps changing
from blue, green to reddish and orange throughout the day and this
phenomenon along with clear views of the place due to June weather,
make the scene even more magical and panoramic.
One of the must-see places in Spiti Valley is the Ki Monastery,
which is situated next to the Spiti River and could not have been set on
a more beautiful location. A thousand year old Tabo gompa is perched
on an amazing elevation of 3050 metres and looks like a honeycomb
on a hillside. The historic Trilokinath Temple dedicated to Lord Shiva
is also worth a visit.
Y
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Kullu Airport and Chandigarh
Airport
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: Joginder Nagar
railway station, and Shimla
railway station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year except
peak winters
IDEAL FOR:
Family vacation, couple
vacation, trips with friends
WEBSITE:
www.himachaltourism.gov.in
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|111Exploring India50 Unique Destinations110|
Statue of Unity
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Vadodara Airport
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: Vadodara Railway
Station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR: Family vacation,
couple vacation, trips with
friends
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.gujarattourism.com
dded to the list of big attractions from Gujarat like the
Great Rann of Kutch and the Gandhi circuit, the Statue of
Unity, the world’s tallest statue stands at 597 ft. stands on
an island in the Narmada River. Designed as a memorial to
Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, popularly known as the ‘Iron Man
of India’, the statue is just 3.5 km away from Kevadia town
and about 200 km from Ahmedabad. Inaugurated by the
Prime Minister, Shri Narendra Modi on Sardar Patel’s birth
anniversary on October 31 in 2018, it is gradually becoming
a major tourist destination nationally and internationally
as it was visited by over 1.3 lakh tourists in just first 11 days
of its opening. It draws a decent number of foreign tourists
besides domestic visitors from all over the country.
Towering over the Sardar Sarovar Dam in the remote
corner of Gujarat, the ₹ 3,000 crore statue offers breath taking
panoramic views of mountain ranges, entire Narmada river
and dam from its chest. It is twice as tall as the Statue of
Liberty in New York, 100 times larger than a normal human
being, and at 70 feet, Sardar Patel’s face is bigger than the
faces of the US Presidents cut out on Mount Rushmore
in the US. Designed by Maharashtra’s legendary architect
Ram V Sutar, the statue is built to withstand winds of up to
290 km ph and earthquakes of magnitude up to 6.5 point
on Richter scale. The Sardar Patel statue was conceived as a
naturalistic depiction of the freedom fighter in his charac-
teristic style in a walking pose, rising out of a star-shaped
geometric base that covers the entire Sadhu Hill. The base
of the Statue is constructed with over 129 tonnes of scrap
iron, donated by nearly 100 million farmers from across
India.
Besides the statue itself, there are several other tourist
attractions around including the valley of flowers, natural
beauty of the Satpura and Vindhyachal hill ranges besides
the Sardar Sarobar dam on the mighty Narmada River.
A
With age, comes wisdom. With travel, comes understanding.
Sandra Lake
Gujarat
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|113Exploring India50 Unique Destinations112|
Sundarbans
West Bengal
To live is the rarest thing in the world. Most people just exist.
Oscar Wilde
he Indian Sundarbans, covering the south-westernmost part of the
delta, constitutes over 60 per cent of the country’s total mangrove
forest area and includes 90 per cent of the Indian mangrove species.
This active delta region is among the largest in the world, measuring
about 40,000 sq km. They are one of the largest such forests in the
world (140,000 ha), situated on the delta of the Ganges, Brahmaputra
and Meghna Rivers on the Bay of Bengal. It is adjacent to the border of
India’s Sundarbans World Heritage site inscribed in 1987.
The Sundarbans is the biggest delta, back water and tidal
phenomenon of the region and thus provides diverse habitats for
several hundreds of aquatic, terrestrial and amphibian species. The
property is of sufficient size to adequately represent its considerably
high floral and faunal diversity with all key values included within
the boundaries. The site includes the entire landscape of mangrove
habitats with an adequate surrounding area of aquatic (both marine
and freshwater) and terrestrial habitats, which is essential for the
long term conservation of the Sundarbans and its rich and distinct
biodiversity.
The area is best known for its wide range of fauna, including 260
bird species, the Bengal tiger and other threatened species such as the
estuarine crocodile, leopard cats, ridley sea turtle, wild boar, jungle cat,
fox, flying fox, fishing cats, chital, pangolin and the Indian python. The
Sundarbans is home to the Sunderbans National Park, which is a tiger
and biosphere reserve located in the Sunderbans delta in the state of
West Bengal (India). The Sunderbans is named after the Sundari trees
which are found in bulk in this area. The park was established as a
national park in 1984.
T
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose
International Airport, Kolkata
NEAREST RAILWAy STATION:
Sealdah Railway Station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
October to May
IDEAL FOR:
Family vacation, couple
vacation, trips with friends
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
https://www.wbtourismgov.in
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|115Exploring India50 Unique Destinations114|
Thanjavur
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Tiruchirappalli International
Airport
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: Trichy Junction
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR:
Family vacation, couple
vacation, trips with friends
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.tamilnadutourism.org
hanjavur, is one of the most revered temple sites in the region of
Tamil Nadu in southern India. It is one of the most important and
most visited historical sites in India today. Thanjavur is also listed
by UNESCO as a World Heritage Site. With a hazy past, historical
legacy and mesmerising beauty, the town has today turned into a
busy and hectic modern hub.
This ancient temple destination has been a cultural centre for
more than a millennium. The place is one of the most popular
tourist centres in Tamil Nadu and attracts a large number of visitors
from all over the world. From magnificent temples and buildings
to cultural and artistic venues, there are no dearth of options to
visit in the place and a visitor here is truly spoilt for choice.
No write up on Thanjavur would be complete without the
mention of the Brahadeeswara Temple, which is one of the most
important landmarks in Thanjavur. The 11th century structure
is one of the foremost examples of the Chola architecture and
was constructed using some of the most advanced architectural
techniques of the time. Mahashivratri is one festival that is
celebrated with a lot of pomp and zeal here.
A perfect souvenir to carry back home are the extremely
creative and attractive Tanjore dolls and Tanjore paintings, which
are the perfect examples that best define the cultural importance
and relevance of art and architecture down south. Dating back to
many centuries, the painting styles of Tanjore played an important
role in influencing the later Indian art forms and movements.
The royal preserves in the city of Tanjore inhibits one of the
oldest churches in the region, the Schwartz Church in Thanjavur.
The church boasts of a unique heritage since it was constructed
without the influence of imperial administration. The church is
noteworthy for its architectural style and features sculptures by
famous Italian sculptor, John Flaxman.
T
The traveller sees what he sees. The tourist sees what he has
come to see. G.K. Chesterton
Tamil Nadu
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|117Exploring India50 Unique Destinations116|
Puliyancholai Falls
Tiruchirappalli, Tamil Nadu
Tourists don’t know where they’ve been, travellers don’t
know where they’re going.”
- Paul Theroux
uliyancholai is a breath taking scenic spot on the foothills of the Kolli
Hills. It is a forest region splashed with a small stream and covered with
lush green foliage and tamarind groves. The place is a favourite haunt
among the tourists throughout the year who visit to enjoy bathing in
natural springs. This forest region is cool and green with the added
attraction of the stream, which offers a natural bathing area for the
tourists throughout the year.
In the vicinity of the Puliyancholai Falls there is another water fall
in the higher hills, which is called Akaya Gangai. It is believed that the
water in this fall carries medicinal value. The 18th day of the Tamil
month Adi is the time for worshipping the river here and thus people
in large numbers visit Puliyancholai that day. Puliyancholai to Agasa
Gangai Falls (Hill top) is a five hours hard trek journey.
The scenic charm and picturesque attractions make Tiruchirapalli
amongst the most travelled destinations in Tamil Nadu. Moreover, the
city has a rich cultural heritage, which can be easily seen through its
various monuments and temples. Tiruchirapalli boasts of some more
equally enthralling tourist places that are definitely worth checking
out while in here which include Rock Fort and Railway Museum.
The Puliancholai falls is a terrace waterfall, which appears like a
stream of water that cascades through rocky terrain. Puliancholai is
a thick forest region, best suited for trekking and other adventurous
activities. Located far away from the hustle and bustle of the urban
areas, this place offers you a quite escape from busy city life. Besides
the falls and the forests, there is also a Shiva Temple which is situated
about 12 km inside the thick forest. Devotees come here to trek up to
Shiva temple in June and July.
P
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Tiruchirappalli International
Airport
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: Salem Railway
Station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR:
Family vacation, couple
vacation, trips with friends
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.tamilnadutourism.org
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|119Exploring India50 Unique Destinations118|
Zanskar
NEAREST AIRPORT: Kushok
Bakula Rimpochee Airport in
Leh
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: Jammu Tawi
Railway Station
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
April to October
IDEAL FOR:
Family vacation, couple
vacation, trips with friends
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.jktourism.jk.gov.in
ocated in Ladakh, Zanskar is a high altitude deserted area which
has a lot to offer in terms of lush greenery, gompas, monastries,
high and rocky hills and much more. The place has got its name
as Zanskar, which means copper star, mainly because there are
many segments of the copper flowing into the river Zanskar. The
place is located at a distance of 235 km from the city of Kargil.
The Zanskar valley is situated across the Suru Valley and
over the Pensi La in the Ladakh region of Jammu and Kashmir.
This pristine place has primarily remained untouched because
it stays hidden in the spectacular Himalayas, which is why
perhaps it is one of the most enchanting places to visit in the
Himalayas. Once you happen to visit the place you will fall in
love with the massive glaciers, gushy and refreshing blue waters
– not to mention the beauty of it all.
These days adventure enthusiasts and Himalayan lovers
embark on their journeys to these remote places in trans-Hi-
malayas. In the recent past, Zanskar Valley has started getting
enough attention of travellers from all walks of life across the
globe. Thanks to the much popular Chadar trek where hikers
walk over the frozen Zanskar River.
When it comes to remote and pristine location, Zanskar gets
as close to isolation as it can and could be reached only through
a long 15 hours road drive. The journey along treacherous and
potholed terrain follows Suru River or gets complete through an
arduous trek. The region lies on the Northern flank of the Great
Himalayan Mountain Range. Bikers today have garnered a lot
of thrill and adventure through this magnificent and isolated
paradise.
The best season to travel to Zanskar Valley is between June
to September/October. In the early season, the roads are in bad
conditions and take couple of weeks after opening to stabilise
for safe travels. In winters, the only way to reach Zanskar Valley
is through long freezing walk over the frozen Zanskar River.
L
You need not even listen, just wait…the world will offer itself
freely to you, unmasking itself.
Franz Kafka
Ladakh
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|121Exploring India50 Unique Destinations120|
Ziro Valley
Arunachal Pradesh
To get away from one’s working environment is, in a sense, to
get away from one’s self; and this is often the chief advantage of
travel and change.
Charles Horton Cooley
iro Valley, situated in the lower Subansiri district of Arunachal
Pradesh, rests at a distance of around 115 Km from the state
capital Itanagar and lies at about 1500 m above the sea level.
Tucked amidst the mountainscape of Arunachal Pradesh, the
tranquillity here will leave one completely at peace and is
often treated as the perfect place to meditate or spend some
time with Mother Nature. Innumerable nature admirers and
avid photographers travel here from far to soak in the serenity
of its natural splendour.
One of the major Apatani village is Hong vilalge. Houses
in these villages are made of bamboo. Each house has a huge
stove in the middle; they sleep just near it to keep themselves
warm. To visit these villages one should take a local guide along
as he would be able to better explain the culture, traditions
and lifestyle of the people living in these areas. Since Paddy
cum fish cultivation is also a popular activity here, people
who have interest in them can treat it as an added attraction
in Ziro.
The hidden gem of Arunachal Pradesh – Ziro Valley is
also known for the vibrant and multi coloured clothes. If you
ever get a chance to shop here, it will definitely add value to
your wardrobe. Peace seekers won’t go disappointed from
here as calmness of the destination makes it a peace lovers’
paradise. Enclosed by lush green forests and hills, Ziro valley
is a picturesque eastern Himalayan town that offers stunning
landscape to behold.
Besides vibrant garments, Ziro is also famous for bamboo
items such as bamboo baskets, Apatani handlooms and
locally made handicraft items. Also worth buying in Ziro are
colourful rugs, scarves and jackets. It is home to the Apa Tani
Tribe, Pine Hills and rice fields.
Z
NEAREST AIRPORT:
Jorhat, Assam
NEAREST RAILWAy
STATION: Naharalagun and
North Lakhimpur
BEST TIME OF VISIT:
Throughout the year
IDEAL FOR:
Family vacation, couple
vacation, trips with friends
OFFICIAL STATE TOURISM
WEBSITE:
www.arunachalpradesh.gov.in
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations|123
Exploring India
50 Unique Destinations124|
ISBN : 978-81-939612-8-5
BOTTINDIA.COM
More MedIA Pvt. Ltd
New deLhI
`500


Travelite (India)
Destination Management Company
IndiaNepal | Bhutan | Sri Lanka | Maldives
CONTENTS
Welcome Note 1
The Travelite Experience 2
Map of Indian Subcontinent 3
Golden Triangle 4
Golden Triangle Extensions 5
Forts & Palaces of Rajasthan 6
Desert Camps of Rajasthan 8
Rural Rajasthan 9
Himalayan Beauty 10
Luxury in North India 11
West Bengal & Sikkim 12
Temples, Tribes & Tea 13
In the Footsteps of Buddha 14
River Cruises 16
Beach Havens of India 17
Gujarat to Karnataka 18
Kerala : God's Own Country 19
Temple Trails of Tamil Nadu 20
Luxury in South India 21
Wellness in India 22
Luxury Train Journeys 24
Wildlife Encounters 26
Special Interest Tours 28
Adventure in India 30
M.I.C.E 32
Private Charters 34
Weddings in India 35
Kingdom of Nepal 36
Bhutan : The Dragon Kingdom 38
Sri Lanka 40
Maldives 42
NORTH INDIA
EAST & NORTH EAST INDIA
INDIAN WATERWAYS
WEST & SOUTH INDIA
CONCEPT TOURS
INDIAN SUB-CONTINENT
Well Integrated ... in Tourism Industry
Wealth ... of Experience
Focus... on Service Excellence
Add Value... to Our Agents
Zero Tolerance... in Our Team
Nurture... Long Term Relationships
Innovate... Unique Products & Services
Continuous... Learning
Travelite (India) is a part of the KTC Group. Established in
1943, our parent company, KTC India, pioneered luxury
coach and car travel in the country. The group also includes
KTC Grand Tours, our worldwide holiday division.
Nurtured with more than 70 years of experience, today
Travelite (India) has created a dynasty of professionalism,
cultivated with experience in the Indian Tourism Industry.
Flowing from the top, Service Excellence is the foundation of
KTC Group, being our first virtue, embedded in our culture
by founder owner, Mr Des Raj Singh.
We work with our agents. We aspire to differentiate our
agents from the masses, by offering them top of the league
products and services. Growth of our agents defines our
success.
Tourism is our business, but each tour is a travellers'
memory. We take responsibility to ensure these memories
are cherished forever. We understand the significance of
meticulous planning, cross checks, and follow ups to ensure
seamless service.
Our strongest business partners and team members have
been with us longest, reiterating our belief that relationships
are paramount in our business.
Our aim is to exceed expectations of our travellers.
Innovation keeps us one step ahead and ensures we surprise
th
our travellers even on their n tour with us.
Learning never stops and one can never learn enough! Our
corporate growth is driven by continuous learning and
development of our team members - together we can touch
the sky!
The Travelite Advantage
India is a medley of fascinating colours and cultures, an historical
legacy, a canvas of architectural masterpieces, and an extravagant
exuberance of royal splendour. This land of sages and ancient legends
is home to the eternal symbol of love - the Taj Mahal, magnificent forts
and palaces of Rajasthan, emerald beaches of Goa and Kerala, ancient
caves of Ajanta and Ellora and the Golden Temple of Amritsar.
Crowned by Himalayas in the north and surrounded by oceans in the
south, India offers a platter full of variety, packed in one country.
Ranging from walking trails through Himalayan villages, to desert
camps in the sand dunes, tribal and rural experiences, modern
metropolitan cities, wildlife parks, serene backwaters, luxury trains,
river cruises and adventure tours, the choice is only limited by your
imagination!
In this brochure, we introduce you to the mesmerising beauty of the
Indian subcontinent. Combining the cultural splendours of India with
the snow covered Himalayan peaks of Nepal, the serenity of Bhutan,
green tea estates of Sri Lanka and the turquoise beaches of Maldives,
the Indian sub continent treasures it all.
When travelling to India, it is worth taking a short trip to a
neighbouring country, to enhance your experience. You will notice a
striking similarity, yet subtle differences in the people, food, culture,
religion and lifestyle in the entire subcontinent. It is in these
differences that we celebrate the 'unity in diversity of the Indian
subcontinent.
Allow us to create an experience of a lifetime, an inspiring journey to an
exotic land, discovering the people, culture, tradition, history and
legacy of our Incredible India and its neighbouring wonderlands. With
our passion, experience and meticulous planning, we promise to weave
memories you will cherish forever.
Welcome aboard your Indian voyage with Travelite (India)
'
Welcome to India : The Land of Euphoria
1www.traveliteindia.com
2
OUR PRICE is constantly reviewed, to ensure it remains at the lowest
level possible. We take pride in knowing that our tours offer excellent
value for money. When compared to another tour of similar standard,
we are confident that our tours will not be over priced.
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
Customized Tailor Made Tours
Fixed Departure Tours
Hotel Reservations
Sightseeing and Excursion Tours
Unique Culture Connection Experiences
Private Plane & Helicopter Charter Services
Government & VIP Delegations
Incentive Tours
Meetings & Conference Handling
Land Travel: We operate our own fleet of Premium Cars (e.g
BMW, Mercedes, Audi) and Luxury Coaches (e.g Volvo, King
Long)
Air Travel: Domestic & International Air Tickets
Train Travel: Train Tours around India; Luxury Train Journeys
of India
Facilitation Services: Transfers & Assistance at all major
airports & hotels across the Indian subcontinent
Language Speaking Guides / Escorts / Interpreters
24 Hours Helpline Service for our Guests
SERVICE PORTFOLIO
OUR PEOPLE
OUR SERVICE
OUR PRODUCTS
OUR SUGGESTED HOTELS & RESTAURANTS
OUR TRANSPORT
are the core of Travelite (India), making each tour unique
and interesting. From their gracious smile and friendly personality to
their meticulous attention to detail, with every tour, they aim to achieve
better than their best. With our high recruitment standards and regular
performance reviews, we ensure we recruit and retain the best.
commences as soon as we receive your enquiry. We
ensure your enquiry is handled by experienced staff, who understand
the significance of replying in time, suggesting itineraries that meet
your precise requirements and operating the tour with utmost
attention to detail. Our staff will remain alert to your concerns and
requirements till the time you return satisfied to your home country.
undergo continuous improvement. Our Central
Research Team gathers innovative ideas from across the subcontinent.
These ideas are discussed, deliberated and once tested and approved,
immediately implemented in our tours. This ensures continuous
innovation in our products, making our tours unique and interesting.
are hand picked by us.
Our stringent selection criteria ensure we only approve the best in the
category. Our preferred properties are periodically reviewed by us for
their facilities, service standards, maintenance standards, surrounding
developments and assessed against client feedback. We continuously
monitor new upcoming properties to ensure our guests receive the
best.
is owned, managed and run by our parent company,
KTC India. Located in the same premises and operated by the same
management allows us direct control over our vehicles and chauffeurs.
Our fleet is maintained sparkling new with utmost attention given to
cleanliness, regular vehicle maintenance, timely road safety checks
and regular fleet renewal policy.
THE TRAVELITE EXPERIENCE
JAMMU &
KASHMIR
HIMACHAL PRADESH
PUNJAB
UTTARAKHAND
HARYANA
DELHI
UTTAR
PRADESH
RAJASTHAN
GUJARAT
MADHYA
PRADESH
SIKKIM
BIHAR
MAHARASHTRA
GOA
KARNATAKA
ANDHRA
PRADESH
TAMIL
NADU
KERALA
LAKSHADWEEP
CHHATTISGARH
ORISSA
JHARKHAND WEST
BENGAL
TRIPURA
MEGHALAYA
ASSAM
ARUNACHAL
PRADESH
NAGALAND
MANIPUR
MIZORAM
ANDAMAN & NICOBAR
NEPAL
SRI LANKA
BHUTAN
MALDIVES
I N D I A
INDIAN SUB-CONTINENT
3www.traveliteindia.com
NORTH INDIA
North India is a medley of kingdoms, cultures, traditions,
architectural marvels and a spectrum of varied landscapes. Ranging
from the snow capped Himalayan crown to the agriculturally rich
plains of Punjab, the arid deserts of Rajasthan, the contrasting
extremes of Old and New Delhi, the wonder of the world Taj Mahal,
and the ancient cities of Haridwar and Varanasi set along the banks
of holy River Ganges, North India offers a continuum of unique
experiences. Golden Triangle
The most popular tour of India, the Golden Triangle tour, includes a
visit to Delhi, the capital of India; Agra, land of the world famous Taj
Mahal; and Jaipur, the pink capital city of Rajasthan.
the Mughal city founded in the 16th century, is one of the most
visited tourist city of India. Agra is home to magnificent architectural
masterpieces such as the beautiful wonder of the world, Taj Mahal and
the splendid Agra Fort. The artisans of Agra still practice the Mughal
art of marble in-lay work, creating magical beauty with marble.
is an exuberance of colours, folk dances, and traditional arts
and crafts. This princely city is home to a wonderful collection of
palatial masterpieces such as the City Palace, Amber Fort, Jal Mahal
and Hawa Mahal. One of the most well planned cities of India, Jaipur is
built in 9 rectangular sectors symbolising 9 divisions of the universe,
as per Indian cosmology.
, the power seat of India, is divided into two parts - Old and New
Delhi. The walled city of Old Delhi narrates the history of the city, whilst
the contemporary New Delhi reflects the cosmopolitan face of India.
From the chaotic streets of Chandni Chowk to the imposing features of
Lutyen's Delhi, this capital city encapsulates the extremes of historic
and modern India.
AGRA,
JAIPUR
DELHI
NORTH INDIA
4 DID YOU KNOW? The wonder of the world, Taj Mahal, was built over 22 years.
Delhi
Agra
Jaipur
Khajuraho
Varanasi
Ranthambore
Bharatpur
Jodhpur
Udaipur
Jaisalmer
Bikaner
Nimaj
Pushkar
Leh
Manali
Srinagar
Mandawa
DeogarhRanakpur
Gulmarg
Jammu
Dalhousie
Shimla
Amritsar
Haridwar
Rishikesh Almora
Nainital
Dharamsala
NORTH INDIA
JAMMU & KASHMIR
HARYANA
PUNJAB
HIMACHAL PRADESH
UTTARAKHAND
UTTAR PRADESH
RAJASTHAN
Golden Triangle Extensions
Spice up the classic Golden Triangle tour by extending it to any the
following interesting destinations
, the open air art gallery of Rajasthan, is a quaint village in
the heart of Shekhawati region. Mandawa has preserved fine examples
of frescoes and painted havelis, as masterpieces of art from bygone era.
, a small village near Jaipur, is famous for its magnificent
Samode Palace. An ideal location for a gala event or a palatial wedding,
Samode Palace features extravagantly painted Durbar Hall and the
exquisite Sheesh Mahal.
, is an architectural jewel spread over 25
acres of land. Cut into an hillside, the fort-palace is stepped, rising to 10
levels and commanding the most splendid views of the region.
, the city famous for its enchanting sculptured temples,
which draw their inspiration from the ancient art of Kama-sutra
, the oldest living city in the world! Set along the banks of
holy River Ganges, Varanasi is the spiritual hub of India.
, the city of warrior kings, poets, musicians and saints. A
historic city, Gwalior is known for its old magnificent fort which houses
a number of ruined palaces and interesting temples.
MANDAWA
SAMODE
NEEMRANA FORT-PALACE
KHAJURAHO
VARANASI
GWALIOR
Suggested Itineraries
Classic Golden Triangle
Golden Triangle with Tigers
Golden Triangle with Samode
Golden Triangle with Neemrana
Rustic Charm of Golden Triangle
Images of North India
Grand Heritage of North India
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
: Delhi - Agra - Jaipur - Delhi
: Delhi - Jaipur - Ranthambore
Bharatpur - Agra - Delhi
: Delhi - Agra - Samode - Jaipur - Delhi
: Delhi - Neemrana - Jaipur - Agra -
Delhi
: Delhi - Mandawa - Jaipur - Agra -
Delhi
: Delhi - Jaipur - Agra - Orchha / Khajuraho -
Varanasi
: Delhi - Jaipur - Agra - Gwalior
Orchha / Khajuraho - Varanasi
Wildlife Extensions
RANTHAMBORE
BHARATPUR
SARISKA
, acclaimed as one of the best places in the world to
photograph tigers in the wild.
, home to Keoladeo Ghana National Park, one of the finest
bird sanctuaries in Asia
, the erstwhile hunting resort of the royal family of Alwar,
Rajasthan
NORTH INDIA
5www.traveliteindia.com
Forts & Palaces of Rajasthan
India's forts and palaces are the country's treasured manuscripts
narrating the saga of this Land of Maharajas. The desert state of
Rajasthan is where history comes alive in the form of art,
architecture, sculptures and cultures that brings thousands of
heritage lovers to India.
Rajasthan houses the largest number of forts and palaces in the
world. Today, some of these architectural marvels have been
converted into heritage hotels, allowing you the luxury of a palatial
stay in India.
JODHPUR
UDAIPUR
JAISALMER
, the blue hued city of Rajasthan, houses the splendid
Mehrangarh Fort, one of the most impressive and formidable
structures in Rajasthan. Jodhpur is also home to the magnificent Umaid
Bhawan Palace, a fine example of early 20th century palatial
architecture in India.
, the lake city surrounded by Aravalli ranges, is regarded as
one of the most romantic cities of Rajasthan. The majestic City Palace in
Udaipur, is one of the largest palace complexes in Rajasthan. Taj Lake
Palace, set in the middle of Lake Pichola, is an 18th century white
marble and mosaic palace which is today a luxury hotel and the
landmark property of Udaipur.
, the city of golden sand dunes, in the far west of Rajasthan,
is popularly called 'the golden city of India . Jaisalmer Fort is the
second oldest fort of Rajasthan, encapsulating five beautiful palaces.
The grand havelis of Jaisalmer, featuring intricate designs and
luxurious interiors, are fine examples of architectural brilliance of the
Rajput Maharajas.
'
BIKANER
KUMBALGARH
CHITTAURGARH
, the camel city of India, is renowned for the best riding
camels in the world. The Junagarh Fort in Bikaner is an impressive
formidable structure built in the 16th century. The relatively modern
red sandstone palace, Lalgarh Palace, was built in the early 20th
century and is an architectural marvel surrounded by sprawling lawns
and gardens.
, the magnificent fortress, stands unconquerable,
except for once when the fort was conquered by Emperor Akbar. Built
on a hilltop, Kumbhalgarh fort is circumferenced by a 36 kilometres
long wall, claimed to be the second longest wall in the world, after the
Great Wall of China. The fort encapsulates remains of erstwhile palaces
and more than 300 temples.
, the tragic historical fort of Rajasthan, was occupied
for more than 800 years before being abandoned in the 16th century.
The fort was invaded thrice and on all three occasions the civilians of
the region chose to sacrifice their lives rather than leading a life of
submission. Inside the fort are ruins of erstwhile palaces and temples
still in active worship.
NORTH INDIA
6 DID YOU KNOW? India is the world's largest democracy.
DEVIGARH
POKARAN
NIMAJ
, an 18th century palace nestled in the Aravalli ranges, is
situated in the village of Delwara. It took years of restoration and
rebuilding, to convert Devigarh Palace into one of India's top heritage
palace hotels. The immaculate interiors of the palace are designed with
detail, using local marbles and semi-precious stones, creating an
eclectic mix of heritage and contemporary designing.
, home to the magnificent yellow sandstone citadel, Fort
Pokaran, is situated in the Thar desert, between Jodhpur and Jaisalmer.
Fort Pokaran encapsulates exquisite palaces, a museum showcasing an
assortment of weapons, paintings, pottery and costumes of the
erstwhile Maharajas, and a heritage hotel run by the royal family.
, is a small village famous for its splendid Nimaj Palace. One of
the oldest heritage properties of India, Nimaj Palace is an architectural
masterpiece. Over centuries the Thakurs of Nimaj have refurbished the
palace to evoke memories of their chivalrous days. The palace facade,
painted in white, makes it a distinctive landmark in the region.
KHIMSAR
l
l
l
l
l
, a quaint village perched on the edge of the Thar desert, is
renowned for its grand Khimsar Fort. A 16th century marvel, today the
Khimsar Fort is a luxurious heritage hotel run by the 20th generation of
royal lineage who still reside in the fort.
: Delhi - Mandawa- Bikaner - Jaisalmer -
Pokaran - Jodhpur - Udaipur - Jaipur - Agra - Delhi
: Delhi - Mandawa - Kuchamman - Khimsar -
Jaisalmer - Jodhpur - Kumbalgarh - Udaipur - Chittaurgarh -Jaipur
- Delhi
: Delhi - Agra - Samode - Jaipur - Neemrana
- Delhi
: Delhi - Agra - Jaipur - Nimaj - Jodhpur - Pokaran -
Jaisalmer - Bikaner - Mandawa - Delhi
: Delhi - Agra - Jaipur - Mandawa
Bikaner - Jaisalmer - Jodhpur - Udaipur
Suggested Itineraries
Deserts of Rajasthan
Forts of Rajasthan
Palatial Golden Triangle
Desert Delights
Taj Mahal & Gems of Rajasthan
NORTH INDIA
7www.traveliteindia.com
NORTH INDIA
ROHETGARH
MANVAR
MANDAWA
ABHANERI
NIMAJ
RANTHAMBORE
, located close to Jodhpur, is a wilderness camp, with
large tents furnished with typical Rajasthani decor. The tents are set up
around a central lounge and dining area, which is beautifully relaxing
by day and romantically lit with candles by night. The camp is located
on a small dune, with spectacular views.
, a tented camp amidst the wilderness surrounded by sand
dunes, is an oasis of rare exclusivity. 30 safari-style tents arranged in a
semi-circle around a central durbar hall, allow for commanding views
over the desert wilderness. These luxurious tents are more like mini-
marquees with polished teak furniture, rich jute rugs and lovely
custom designed block-printed tent linings.
, a quaint town in the heart of Shekhawati region in
Rajasthan, offers rural charm in the form of mud cottages at the Desert
Resort and spacious swiss tents at Camp Mandawa.
, the historic site of 7th century step wells, offers rustic
camps as an ideal stop over en-route the famous golden triangle. The
camp offers 12 deluxe tents with wall to wall carpets, mesh windows,
wood and wrought iron furniture.
, a small village in central Rajasthan is home to the luxurious
Chhatra Sagar Camp, set along the banks of a water reservoir. Each tent
is carefully hand stitched with interiors block printed in traditional
floral motifs. The camp has 11 tents along the banks of the lake and 2
tents atop a hill providing complete privacy and breathtaking 360
degree views.
, the wildlife hub of Rajasthan, is home to a beautiful
collection of desert camps ranging from the luxurious tents at Oberoi
Vanyavilas and Aman-i-Khas, to the eco friendly lavish tents and
cottages at Sherbagh and Khemvilas, deluxe cottages at Tiger Den and
Pugmark, and the budget tents at Ranthambore Bagh.
Desert Camps of Rajasthan
Rajasthan, home to the golden sand dunes, is a haven for desert
camps in India. For the erstwhile Maharajas, campaigning in distant
lands meant long stays in desert camps. During wars or expeditions,
camps were the only luxury available and soon these “homes away
from home” evolved into mobile, mini-palaces.
Today, Rajasthan offers a wonderful selection of desert camps, to
create the ideal nomadic desert retreat. Most camps offer camel and
jeep safaris to nearby villages and evening entertainment with bon
fire, local musicians & dancers, puppet shows, juggling, and other
regional performances.
PUSHKAR
NAGAUR
JAISALMER
l
l
l
l
OSIAN
, is the hub of India's largest annual camel fair held in
November every year. Pushkar is home to a beautiful collection of
desert camps, ranging from the luxurious tents at Greenhouse and
Aaram Bagh to the deluxe tents at Pushkar Bagh, which swing to life
with people and large flocks of camel every November.
, like Pushkar, is home to an annual cattle fair, held in
February every year. Founded in the 4th century, the city of Nagaur is
dominated by the Nagaur Fort complex, which encompasses luxury
tents, using the finest of Marwar traditional skills.
, the golden city of Rajasthan and a haven for desert camps
offers a wonderful selection of camps to suit every budget. Popular
desert camps in and around Jaisalmer include:
The Serai, a luxury desert camp and spa, offers 21 tents, including a
'Royal Suite' with its private pool, spa and lounging tent and 6
'Luxury Tents' with private walled gardens and plunge pools.
Mirvana Nature Resort, located midway between Pokhran and
Jaisalmer, provides 15 luxury tents, raised on a marble platform,
crafted using local natural materials. Being a nature resort, Mirvana
also offers organic food and fresh farm dairy.
Mool Sagar Camp, a historic camp with 18 luxurious tents,
delightful stone pavilions and fountains, and a swimming pool, set
amidst wonderful gardens.
Dune Safari Camp, in the sand dunes of Sam, consists of 20 deluxe
tents, with a rustic charm. The camp can also arrange desert
marathons and desert survival lessons for small groups.
, is a famous landmark camp in the sand dunes of Rajasthan.
Featuring a refreshing swimming pool, the camp is a feat of
architectural engineering in the sand dunes. Osian camp is famous for
its safari bar, a wonderful place to relax in the evenings with a drink and
cigar.
8 DID YOU KNOW? Sanskrit, the language of ancient India, is considered the mother of all languages.
Rural Rajasthan
In the heart of Rajasthan, lie a number of small towns and villages,
which define the true essence of this land. A visit to these hidden
gems, provides an opportunity to learn about the people, culture and
lifestyle of rural India. Stay at erstwhile forts and palaces, which
have now been converted to heritage hotels, and experience the
intriguing traditions and customs of tribal Rajasthan.
NARLAI
LUNI
CHANDELAO
MADHOGARH
PACHEWAR
BUNDI
, situated midway between Jodhpur & Udaipur, is known for its
17th century villa, Ravla Narlai, now converted to a heritage hotel. A
stay here, allows an opportunity to explore the surrounding village.
, is a hub of activity with its many artisans fashioning metal, clay
and wood into intricate designs, demonstrating the skills learnt over
centuries. Stay at Fort Chanwa of Luni, an exceptional example of
elegance and symmetry in Indian architecture, now a heritage hotel.
, a rustic village close to Jodhpur, offers jeep, camel and
bullock cart safari options to explore the village. Chandelao artisans
excel in pottery and weaving. The medieval fort of Chandelao, has now
been converted into a heritage hotel called 'Chandelao Garh'.
, the village of potters, carpenters and cobblers,
displaying their skills pursuing their ancient family trades. Stay at Fort
Madhogarh, now a heritage hotel.
, is a village famous for pottery, carpets, tie and dye fabrics,
terra cotta and nomadic blacksmiths. Stay at Pachewar fort, a well-
preserved 300 year old fort with massive ramparts, now a heritage
hotel.
, is home to an impressive medieval fort famous for its delicate
miniatures, step-wells that functioned as water reservoirs centuries
ago, and the nearby villages with more than 1,200 looms producing
Kota Doriya Saris.
BIJAIPUR
KHEMPUR
DEOGARH
JOJAWAR
, a small rusty village, where life revolves around the
beautiful Bijaipur Castle built in the 16th century. Converted into a
heritage hotel, Bijaipur Castle is the centre of attraction in Bijaipur
today.
, is an ethnic village renowned for its trained Marwari and
Kathiawari horses. Ravla Khempur, a converted heritage property,
offers the option to explore the nearby
villages on horsebacks.
, a charming village in
the heart of Rajasthan offers a
convenient base for visiting the
famous Kumbalgarh and
Chittaurgarh forts and the Jain
t e m p l e s o f R a n a k p u r .
Deogarh Fort, a magnificent
architectural masterpiece, is
now a heritage hotel.
, in the foothills
of Aravalli Ranges offers a
unique train safari
through the picturesque
Aravallis.
NORTH INDIA
9www.traveliteindia.com
Suggested Itineraries
Himalayan Glory
Himalayan Moonland Tour
Holy Himalayas
Ladakh & Nubra Valley Jeep Safari
A Date with Nature
l
l
l
l
l
: Delhi - Amritsar - Dharamsala - Manali - Keylong
- Sarchu - Leh - Alchi - Leh - Delhi
: Delhi - Manali - Keylong - Sarchu - Leh
- Delhi
: Delhi - Haridwar / Rishikesh - Shimla - Manali
- Dharamsala - Amritsar - Delhi
: Leh - Alchi - Khardung La Pass -
Nubra Valley - Leh
: Delhi - Corbett - Rishikesh - Auli - Kaudilya -
Haridwar - Delhi
NORTH INDIA
In the Land of Sages
DHARAMSALA
AMRITSAR
RISHIKESH
, a serene town overlooking the beautiful Kangra valley,
is the current home of His Holiness the Dalai Lama. With strong
Tibetan influence, Dharamsala is dotted with monks and monasteries
and is an important pilgrimage site for Buddhism in India.
, the seat of power of Sikh religion in India, is flocked by
thousands of pilgrims and tourists everyday. The main attraction of
Amritsar is the sparkling Golden Temple (Harmandir Sahib),
surrounded by a reservoir, believed to be holy water.
, set along the banks of holy River Ganges, is the spiritual
hub of Hinduism and a centre of learning for yoga and meditation.
Himalayan Beauty
The Himalayas extend over 2,500km in east-west and between a
range of 250-425km in north-south direction. Formed in three
parallel ranges, the Himalayas extend over more than one country.
Himalayan tours can be designed to suit diverse interests including
adventure, culture, wellness, spiritual, wildlife, walking or leisure
tours.
LADAKH
KUMAON
MANALI
SHIMLA
PALAMPUR
SRINAGAR
, renowned for its remote mountain beauty, is strongly
influenced by Tibetan culture and popularly called "Little Tibet" of
India. Famous as the adventure capital of Himalayas, Ladakh offers
mountain climbing, cycling, jeep safaris, yak safaris, mountaineering,
river rafting, village walks and trekking.
, towered by the highest Himalayan ranges in India, is a
confluence of cultures, architectural and archeological wonders such
as Jageshwar temple, Katarmal sun temple, prehistoric rock art, and
charming local villages blending British and Kumaoni architecture.
Gems of Kumaon region include the first British hill station of Almora,
the lake town of Nainital and the wilderness of Corbett National Park.
, nestled in the Kullu valley, surrounded by snow-capped
peaks, is known for its flourishing orchard industry, as trailhead for
treks and for heli-skiing in the valley.
, the former summer capital of British India, is set amidst snow
capped mountains, which offer stunning views of the Himalayas.
Shimla is an architectural legacy of the British Raj, with mall, churches,
theatre and half timbered bungalows peppered around town.
, a quaint town in the foothills of Himalayas, is the tea
capital of northwest India and known for its colonial architecture and
temples. Set on the rising slopes of Kangra Valley, the scenery is
dominated by rural plains and majestic hills, with pine scented air.
, set along the banks of River Jhelum in Kashmir valley, was
aptly named by the Mughals as 'Paradise on Earth'. Set like a jeweled
crown on the map of India, Kashmir changes its hues with seasons - in
winter, when snow carpets the mountains, there is skiing and sledge
riding along the gentle slopes; in spring and summer, the honey-dewed
orchards, rippling lakes make the valley breathtakingly beautiful.
Drifting down the serene lakes in Shikaras and living in wooden
houseboats are unique experiences offered by Srinagar.
10 DID YOU KNOW? Indian city of Varanasi is the oldest living city in the world.
Village Walks in the Himalayas
One of the most fascinating and unique ways to discover the hidden
beauty of Himalayas is through village walks amidst the serenity of
the mountains. A uniquely authentic Himalayan experience, offers
you ample opportunity for interaction with local villagers and
tribes of the region, along with a rare chance to stay in hand picked,
renovated traditional village houses. Alongside village walks and
driving around the hilly terrain, you also get an opportunity to visit
some of the famous Hindu Temples and Buddhist monasteries of
the region.
Available in * Kumaon * Ladakh * Sikkim
NORTH INDIA
DESERT CAMPS
HIMALAYAN RETREATS
LUXURY IN & AROUND THE CAPITAL CITY
* The Serai, Jaisalmer * Chhatrasagar, Nimaj
* 360 Leti, Almora * Ananada in the Himalayas, Rishikesh * Oberoi
Wildflower Hall, Shimla * The Lalit Grand Palace, Srinagar
* The Imperial, Delhi * Oberoi Gurgaon * Leela Palace, Delhi * Dusit
Devrana, Delhi * The Oberoi, Delhi
Luxury in North India
THE OBEROI VILAS
PALACE HOTELS
* Amarvilas, Agra * Rajvilas, Jaipur * Vanyavilas, Ranthambore
* Udaivilas, Udaipur
* Taj Umaid Bhawan Palace, Jodhpur * Taj Rambagh Palace, Jaipur
* Taj Jai Mahal Palace, Jaipur * Samode Palace, Samode * Taj Lake
Palace, Udaipur * Devigarh Resort, Udaipur * Leela Palace, Udaipur
* Amanbagh, Alwar * Taj Nadesar Palace, Varanasi
11www.traveliteindia.com
EAST & NORTH EAST INDIA
This region of India is a confluence of cultures, peoples, history and
traditions. Ranging from the primitive tribal villages and temples of
Orissa, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh, to the historic sites tracing the
life of Lord Buddha, the cultural splendours of West Bengal, the
serenity and beauty of Sikkim and the wildlife of Assam, the east and
north east regions treasure the unseen beauty of India.
WEST BENGAL
l
l
l
SIKKIM
l
l
l
l
, one of the most culturally and ethnically diverse states
of India, was an integral part of British India. The state offers varied
landscapes ranging from the mighty Himalayas in the north to the
verdant plains, hilly terrains, and mangrove forests in the south.
, the capital of West Bengal, was the founding city of British
East India Company. An amalgamation of cultural and
architectural legacy of British India, Kolkata is famous as the 'City
of Joy', the hub of Indian literature and the city chosen as home by
Mother Teresa.
, a serene hill resort, is famous for its tea plantations and
breathtaking views of the snow capped Himalayas. Strongly
influenced by Tibetan culture and Buddhism, Darjeeling is
peppered with monasteries.
, a UNESCO world heritage site, treasures dense
mangrove forests, winding rivers, narrow creeks, remote villages
and tribal settlements, wild crocodiles, spotted deer, and the
majestic Royal Bengal Tiger.
, the stunning Himalayan paradise, offers breathtaking
mountain views, monasteries in the clouds, mesmerising valleys, and
serene experiences like village walks and sharing a cup of chai with
monks! The diverse terrain and unfolding scenery of Sikkim is best
explored from:
, the picturesque capital city of Sikkim, offers spectacular
views of the snow capped Mt Kanchenjunga, the third highest peak
in the world.
, a little hamlet nestled in the Himalayas, is known for
its monastery, one of the oldest monastery in Sikkim
, the beautiful hill town, is a meeting point of the three
closed lands of Tibet, Nepal and Bhutan.
, a quaint hamlet in north Sikkim, is dotted with hot springs,
lakes and trek routes offering pristine Himalayan purity and a
flavour of local lifestyle.
Kolkata
Darjeeling
Sunderbans
Gangtok
Pemayangste
Kalimpong
Lachen
EAST & NORTH EAST INDIA
12 DID YOU KNOW? India is one of the world's largest and oldest civilizations.
SIKKIM
BIHAR
CHHATTISGARH
JHARKHAND WEST
BENGAL
TRIPURA
MEGHALAYA
ASSAM
ARUNACHAL
PRADESH
NAGALAND
MANIPUR
MIZORAM
ORISSA
Darjeeling
Sunderbans
Gangtok
KalimpongPemayangste
Bhubaneswar
Puri
Gopalpur
Rayagada
Jeypore
Kolkata
Konark
Guwahati
Manas Kaziranga
Jorhat
EAST & NORTH EAST INDIA
Temples, Tribes & Tea
Bhubaneswar
Puri
Konark
Chilika
Gopalpur Rayagada, Jeypore
ORISSA
l
l
l
l
l
CHHATTISGARH
ASSAM
, aptly called 'Miniature India', is a fascinating state with
unspoilt beaches, sprawling lakes, rich forests, historic monuments
and temples, exotic handicrafts, traditional tribes, colourful fairs,
festivals and dances.
, the capital city of Orissa, home to ancient rock cut
caves, wall paintings and sculptures.
, the beautiful beach town of Orissa, known for the famous
temple of Lord Jagannath.
, a small hamlet, renowned for the magnificent Konark Sun
Temple.
, Asia's largest brackish water lake, treasures a wide variety
of migratory birds and dolphins.
, are home to unusual tribes who still
live in forests in a subsistence village economy, bartering their
produce for survival. Some of these primitive tribes are far
removed from the concept of clothing and wear wooden and stone
artefacts as cover. Visit tribal villages and markets, and have first
hand encounters with primitive tribes of India.
, a treasure for mineral resources, is India's industrial
hub for steel, aluminium and cement industries. The state of
Chhattisgarh is famous for its tussar & mulberry silks, ancient rock and
limestone caves, Chitrakote waterfalls - the largest waterfall in India,
and for its unique tribal experiences which allow for visits to tribal
villages, haat bazaars, and seeing tribal dances, festivities and
museums.
, a land nestled in myths and mysteries, has rich green terrain of
rolling plains and dense forests. River Brahmaputra charts its majestic
course through Assam, feeding Majuli, the largest river island in the
world. Assam is renowned for its tea, rich flora and fauna, the world
famous one horned rhinoceros and other rare species of wildlife found
in Kaziranga and Manas National Parks.
The north eastern region of India includes unexplored states of
Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura and
Nagaland. Whilst not fully explored for tourism yet, this remote region
is nature's paradise. Offering exotic landscapes of emerald green
valleys, untouched wilderness, looming mountains, enchanting caves,
serene blue lakes and rivers, cascading waterfalls, whispering pines
and fresh air, the north eastern region of India offers all this and more.
The tribal belt of this region includes unique ethnic tribes, with their
distinctive habitats and lifestyles, not found anywhere else in India.
: Kolkata - Bagdogra /
Darjeeling - Pemayangste - Gangtok - Kalimpong - Bagdogra /
Kolkata
: Bhubaneshwar - Puri - Gopalpur - Rayagada
- Jeypore - Gopalpur - Bhubaneshwar
: Guwahati - Jorhat - Sibasagar - Jorhat - Toklai -
Kaziranga - Guwahati
: Shillong - Cherrapunji - Kaziranga - Kohima -
Touphema - Dimori Cove - Jorhat - Majuli - Guwahati
: Dibrugarh - Digboi - Jorhat - Kaziranga - Guwahati
: Guwahati - Manas - Nameri - Kaziranga
Dibrugarh - Dibrusaikhowa - Deban - Dibrugarh
OTHER STATES OF NORTH EAST INDIA
Suggested Itineraries
Highlights of West Bengal and Sikkim
Tribes of Orissa
Assam Valley Tour
Natures Paradise
Tea Trails
North Eastern Wildlife
l
l
l
l
l
l
EAST & NORTH EAST INDIA
13www.traveliteindia.com
In the Footsteps of Buddha
Follow the path of enlightenment, in the footsteps of Lord
Buddha, imprinted in the various Buddhist pilgrimage sites
associated with important milestones in the life of Lord
Buddha.
SRAVASTI
NALANDA
RAJGIR
BODHGAYA
SARNATH
(Uttar Pradesh), founded by the mythological King
Sravast, this land hosted Lord Buddha and His disciples for 24
years. Lord Buddha is believed to have performed the only
miracles of His life to convince the non-believers at Sravasti.
(Bihar), treasures the ruins of the first residential
international university of the world, where more than 10,000
monk students studied and lived. Though Lord Buddha visited
Nalanda several times during his lifetime, this famous center of
Buddhist learning shot to fame much later, during 5th-12th
centuries
(Bihar), the town where Lord Buddha stayed for 12
years and delivered many of His sermons. It was here that the
teachings of Lord Buddha were recorded in writing for the first
time.
(Bihar), was the place where Prince Siddhartha
attained enlightenment and became Lord Buddha. It was here
that Lord Buddha entered into meditation after being moved by
the sufferings of mankind. Bodhgaya is often visited by the
Dalai Lama and other Lamas (Buddhist religious heads).
(Uttar Pradesh), was the place where Lord Buddha,
after attaining enlightenment, preached his first sermon to his
five disciples.
EAST & NORTH EAST INDIA
14 DID YOU KNOW? World's first university was established in India, in Takshashila in 700BC
VAISHALI
KESARIYA
KUSHINAGAR
In addition to the above mentioned places in East India, other
places of Buddhist interest include:
LUMBINI
BUDDHIST MONASTERIES
BUDDHIST CAVES
(Bihar), the town where Lord Buddha preached his
last sermon and announced His prospective 'Mahaparinirvana
to take place in Kushinagar. Vaishali is also believed to be the
first republic of the world, having an elected body of
representatives and an efficient administration as early as 6th
century BC.
(Bihar), a small town, located in the city of
Champaran, where Lord Buddha spent the night before he
achieved 'Mahaparinirwana', during his travel from Vaishali to
Kushinagar.
(Uttar Pradesh), the place where Lord Buddha
breathed His last words. Today, Kushinagar tops the list of
Buddhist pilgrimage sites in India.
(Nepal), the celebrated birthplace of Lord Buddha.
: scattered around India, especially
in the Himalayan ranges of Ladakh, Dharamsala, Darjeeling and
Sikkim.
: Udaigiri, Ratnagiri and Lalitgiri near
Bhubaneshwar in Orissa ; Ajanta and Ellora caves in
Aurangabad; Kanheri caves near Mumbai.
* Buddhist monasteries, caves and monuments are also found in
Nepal, Sri Lanka and Bhutan.
'
EAST & NORTH EAST INDIA
15www.traveliteindia.com
River Cruises
ASSAM BENGAL NAVIGATION : Assam & Bengal
Experience the hidden beauty and treasures of remote north eastern
regions of Assam and Bengal.
Cruising through River Brahmaputra and Hugli, experience elephant
and jeep safaris in some of India's most treasured wildlife parks-
Manas, Kaziranga and Orang National Park.
Cruising through the Holy River Ganges and Hugli, you get an
opportunity to see unique cattle fairs of eastern India, holy temples,
remains of the British Raj, and some historic Buddhist sites
Enjoy tribal encounters and village walks, interact with the locals,
discover tea plantations, explore country towns on cycle rickshaws,
relish barbecues on deserted river islands, enjoy folk dance
performances, visit temples, shrines and local craft workshops. This is
your chance to experience the real rural India... still far from any signs
of modernity.
For detailed itineraries, departure dates, and river boat
specifications, log on to our website www.traveliteindia.com
INDIAN WATERWAYS
16 DID YOU KNOW? Art of Navigation was born in River Sindhu, in India, more than 6,000 years ago.
Beach Havens of India
India's coastline is home to some of the finest beaches in the world.
The golden sun kissed beaches can be enjoyed in the privacy of your
own villa or by staying at luxurious five star resorts. You also have
the option to cruise in style, whether on a private yacht or aboard a
luxury liner in the vast Indian oceans.
GOA
resorts and private villas in the country. With glistening sands, swaying
coconut palms and fresh sea food, Goa offers everything from sunny
beaches, swimming, adventure sports, relaxing massages, and the
finest spas in India.
KERALA, offers turquoise waters along the shores of Arabian sea, ideal
for a relaxing beach vacation. Golden beaches dotted with coconut and
palm groves, are peppered with Ayurveda and spa resorts. Sun bathing,
swimming, Ayurveda treatments, yoga and meditation, fishing with
local fishermen are some popular beach activities at Kerala. Renowned
beaches include Kovalam, Marari, Kollam, Bekal and Varkala.
ANDAMAN AND NICOBAR ISLANDS, covered with rain forests, are
replete with serene beaches famed for their natural beauty. Sandy
beaches of these islands are famous for turtle nesting and exquisite
marine life, making snorkelling and scuba diving an experience to
remember. Most islands are still uninhabited, some are inhabited by
aboriginal tribes and some are now gearing up to welcome tourists!
LAKSHADWEEP ISLANDS, home to the only coral reef in India,
provide crystal clear waters ideal for snorkelling, diving and wind
surfing. The islands can be accessed via cruise or flight from Kochi.
With beach cottages set along the shores, Lakshadweep offers green,
clean and sandy beaches far from any signs of modern city life.
SHORES OF EAST INDIA, are home to unique beaches, such as Puri,
the only Indian beach flaunting amazing sand sculptures made by
professional artists; Pondicherry, the erstwhile coastal French hamlet
of east India; Mahabalipuram, famous for its shore temple and rich
heritage
, the beach capital of India, is home to the finest luxury hotels,
INDIAN WATERWAYS
17www.traveliteindia.com
WEST & SOUTH INDIA
The western and southern region of India is a kaleidoscope of
natural and cultural beauty ranging from the beach capital of Goa, to
the fast pace of Mumbai, the modern face of Bangalore, the lush
green mountains of Munnar and Ooty, the palm lined backwaters of
Kumaramkom, temple trails of Madurai, Trichy, Tanjore, exotic silks
of Kanchipuram, and heritage of Hampi, Belur and Badami, west and
south India offers all this and a lot more.
WEST & SOUTH INDIA
Gujarat to Karnataka
AHMEDABAD,
MUMBAI
AURANGABAD
BANGALORE
HAMPI
HASSAN
MYSORE
OOTY
HYDERABAD
the largest city in Gujarat, has earned the reputation of
'Manchester of the East for its booming textile industry. Ahmedabad is
famous for its mosques, step wells, Gandhi ashram, textiles and textile
museum.
, home to Bollywood and India's celluloid capital, is one of the
fastest paced cities of modern India. Mumbai reflects the face of
cosmopolitan India and also treasures historical edifices such as the
06th century cave temples on the nearby island of Elephanta.
, the ancient city famous for its fascinating rock cut cave
temples of Ellora, dating back to 05th century. Aurangabad also
treasures the horse shoe shaped Buddhist caves of Ajanta featuring
intricate frescoes, paintings and sculptures dating back to 03rd
century. The hidden secret of Aurangabad is its mini Taj Mahal, called
'Bibi Ka Maqbara'.
, the garden city of India, is known for its flourishing IT
industry. Bangalore is blessed with pleasant weather throughout the
year allowing it to maintain its green botanical gardens offering rich
diversity of flora. The city's legislative chambers are a fine example of
amalgamation of modern and traditional Dravidian temple style
architecture.
, the last capital of Hindu Kingdom of Vijayanagar, remains one
of the most fascinating historical sites in South India and the most
beautiful and evocative of all ruins in the state of Karnataka. The
Dravidian temples and palaces at Hampi date back to the 14th and
16th centuries and some of the structural ruins still exemplify
magnificent architectural marvels.
, the gateway to heritage marvels of Belur and Halebidu. Belur
is famous for its magnificent Hoysala Temple Complex with intricate
sculptures. Halebidu, the erstwhile capital of the Hoysalas, is home to
the Hoysaleswara Temple, a sculptural extravaganza perched on a star-
shaped base.
, the city renowned for its rich silks and sandalwood, is home
to one of the newest and largest palaces of India, the Maharaja's Palace,
built in the late 19th century. Near Mysore is the Chamundi Hill temple,
housing one of the largest statues of Nandi Bull.
, a quaint hill resort of south India, popularly called the 'Queen of
Nilgiri hills'. Ooty is famous for its rolling hills covered in pine and
eucalyptus, sparkling waterfalls and its coffee and tea plantations.
, popularly known as the 'City of Nizams', is the capital of
the state of Andhra Pradesh. Hyderabad offers an interesting blend of
old and new the old 'Nawabi' culture, architecture and minarets and
the new modern high rise buildings and shopping centres.
'
18 DID YOU KNOW? The digit Zero was invented in India.
GUJARAT
MAHARASHTRA
KARNATAKA
ANDHRA
PRADESH
TAMIL
NADU
KERALA
Ahmedabad
Mumbai
Aurangabad
Surat
Hampi
Hassan
Mysore
Ooty
Chennai
Pondicherry
MahabalipuramKanchipuram
Tanjore
Madurai
Hyderabad
Kochi
Periyar
Munnar
Kumarakom
Kovalam
Gadag
GOA
Panaji
Kanyakumari
Kannur
Varkala
WEST & SOUTH INDIA
Bangalore
Kerala : Gods Own Country
Located along south western coast of India, Kerala resembles a
banana leaf clinging between the Western Ghats and beaches of
Arabian sea.
Kerala has been included in the top 50 tourist destinations for once
in a life time visit by National Geographic Channel. The beauty of
Kerala lies in its placid nature encompassing serene backwaters,
beaches, hill stations, spice plantations, flora and fauna, Ayurveda,
boat races, natural harbours and more.
KOCHI
PERIYAR
MUNNAR
, the most cosmopolitan city of Kerala, is also known as Queen
of the Arabian Sea'. The distinctive architecture seen in Dutch
mansions, Portuguese churches, Jewish synagogue, British store
houses and 14th century Chinese fishing nets, reflects Kochi's long
history as an important sea port and trading centre. Kochi is renowned
for its spectacular Kathakali performance, one of the oldest theatre
forms in India. Performed by characters with vividly painted faces and
elaborate costumes, Kathakali is a spectacular combination of drama,
dance, music and rituals, re-enacting stories from the Hindu epics of
Mahabharata and Ramayana.
, the hub of spice plantations in Kerala, is also famous for its
wildlife park which is best experienced aboard a boat cruise on Lake
Periyar. The wildlife sanctuary is home to elephants, deer, wild boars,
bears, flying squirrels, and a variety of bird and reptile species. The
town is fragranced with the spicy aromas of pepper, cardamom,
cinnamon, cloves, ginger and nutmeg.
, a famous hill resort in east Kerala, had long fascinated
Europeans and became the southern summer resort of British India.
Munnar valley was developed by Scottish planters in the early 20th
century. Munnar is carpeted by thick forests and tea estates. The
specialty of Munnar is jungle honey, tea and a rare flower 'Neela
Kurunji' which blooms once in 12 years.
'
WAYANAD
BACKWATERS
BEACHES
VILLAGES
, a quaint town in North Kerala, is famous for its wildlife,
Ayurveda centres and plantation resorts. In close vicinity are schools of
'Kalari', a popular martial art form of south India and the hill resort of
Lakkidi, offering options for trekking and visiting caves more than
5000 years old.
of Kerala encompass a complex network of lagoons,
lakes, & canals, that are best experienced aboard traditional thatch-
roofed rice houseboat, known as 'Kettuvallam'. On display is life on the
banks, lush green rice fields, and coconut groves with an occasional
temple or church as you cruise through the backwaters. The
houseboats come along with a chef on board, preparing authentic
Kerala cuisine. The serene backwaters around Kumarakom and
Alleppey can also be enjoyed in the privacy of a deluxe villa, luxury
hotel or resort with canals running through the property!
of Kerala, along the shores of Arabian sea, are ideal for a
relaxing vacation. Golden beaches dotted with coconut and palm
groves, are peppered with Ayurveda and spa resorts. Sun bathing,
swimming, Ayurveda treatments, yoga and meditation, fishing with
local fishermen are some popular beach activities at Kerala. Renowned
beaches include Kovalam, Marari, Kollam, Bekal and Varkala.
along the coast of Kerala offer an insight into the local
lifestyle, crafts, traditions and cultures of the region. Popular coastal
villages of Kerala include Beypore, a quaint village known for centuries
as the shipbuilding centre of south India, is famous for its country boats
called 'Uru'; Mahe, an erstwhile French settlement in Kerala; Kannur, a
coastal town known for its pristine beaches and handloom industry, is
also renowned for its old 'hookah' factory.
WEST & SOUTH INDIA
19www.traveliteindia.com
Temple Trails of Tamil Nadu
The south eastern state of Tamil Nadu is home to magnificent temple
complexes and serene beaches with character. Rich in heritage and
cultural beauty, this region of India specialises in rock cut
sculptures, intricate stone work and rich woven silks.
CHENNAI
PONDICHERRY
MAHABALIPURAM
KANCHIPURAM
TRICHY
TANJORE
, a city that grew from a small fishermen's village, was an
ancient hub of Portuguese traders in India. Home to the first British
Church in the country, Chennai also houses Fort St George, the first
original outpost of British East India Company, established in the 17th
century.
, the French Riviera of south east India, is a former
French colony which still retains its distinctive charm. Pondicherry is
also popular for one the largest aashrams in India, Auroville, a unique
experiment in human unity and international living.
, a 7th century UNESCO world heritage site, is
famous for its magnificent shore temple, with an unusual statue of
sleeping Lord Vishnu. Mahabalipuram is also popular for its monolithic
rock sculptures with intricately carved animals and scenes from the
Hindu epic, Mahabharata.
, one of the seven holiest Hindu cities in India, is
famous for its numerous temples and hand woven silks. Kanchipuram
silks are exotic pieces of art, often decorated with fine gold and silver
threads (zari).
, a bustling temple city, thriving with priests and elephants
granting blessings to devotees, is famous for its magnificent rock fort
and beautifully carved temples.
, a quiet town, set along the banks of River Cauvery, is
renowned for its 10th century Brihadeshwara temple, a magnificent
structure carved out of granite, displaying intricate carvings and
beautiful frescoes on its surrounding walls.
MADURAI, a famous temple citiy of South India, is home to the splendid
Meenakshi temple. Being one of the most visited temples in the region,
Meenakshi temple is always bustling with devotees.
Suggested Itineraries
Mumbai to Kerala Tour
Jewels of South India
Deccan Delights
Temples of South India
Kerala - God's own country
Emerald Waters of India
l
l
l
l
l
l
: Mumbai - Bangalore - Hassan - Mysore -
Ooty - Calicut - Kochi - Periyar - Kumarakom - Kovalam -
Trivandrum
: Bangalore - Hassan - Mysore - Ooty - Kochi
-Alleppey / Kumarakom - Periyar - Madurai - Trichy / Tanjore-
Pondicherry - Mahabalipuram - Kanchipuram / Chennai
: Hyderabad - Gulbarga - Bijapur - Badami - Hampi
Goa
: Chennai - Mahabalipuram - Pondicherry -
Tanjore - Madurai - Kanyakumari - Trivandrum
: Kochi - Munnar - Periyar - Kumarakom
- Houseboat - Kovalam
: Mumbai - Goa - Kochi - Kumarakom
- Kovalam
WEST & SOUTH INDIA
20 DID YOU KNOW? India discovered Ayurveda, the earliest school of medicine known to humans.
Luxury in South India
Luxurious City Stays
* Taj Mahal, Mumbai * The Oberoi, Mumbai * The Leela, Mumbai * Four
Seasons, Mumbai * Leela Palace, Bangalore * Vivanta by Taj Malabar,
Kochi * Taj Falaknuma Palace, Hyderabad
Luxury Beach & Backwater Resorts
* Park Hyatt, Goa * The Leela, Goa * Grand Hyatt, Goa * Vivanta by Taj
Holiday Village, Goa * Kumarakom Lake Resort, Kumarakom
* Niraamaya Surya Samudra, Kovalam * The Leela Kovalam * Oberoi
M.V. Vrinda, Houseboat in Alleppey
WEST & SOUTH INDIA
21www.traveliteindia.com
WELLNESS IN INDIA
Ayurveda
Medical Tourism
India is home to a wonderful selection of Yoga and meditation
retreats, Ayurveda centres and Spa resorts. These are scattered all
over the country - in the hills, amidst spice plantations, along the
backwaters, on the beach, in palace hotels, in desert camps, and in
modern cities. Varying in style, comfort and price, the choice is only
limited by your imagination!
India is also the budding hub for medical tourism. With quality
hospitals, qualified doctors, impeccable service and no waiting time,
the country is gradually becoming the first choice for patients
requiring specialist surgeries and medical procedures.
Ayurveda, the oldest form of healthcare in the world, has been
practiced in India for thousands of years. 'Ayurveda' means 'knowledge
of life'. India offers holistic Ayurvedic therapies, based on physical
treatment and philosophical and psychological healing. Ayurveda
views ailments as a result of combination of factors along with specific
components of diet, and customises treatments for patients. Ayurvedic
principles are found in detail in Atharva Veda, one of the four ancient
Vedas (Holy Scriptures) of Hinduism.
Ayurvedic treatments are divided into eight branches * Kaya chikilsa
(general medicine) * Shalya (surgery) * Shalakya (ENT and
ophthalmology) * Graha (psychotherapy) * Damshitra (toxicology)
*Bala (pediatrics and gynaecology) * Jara (rejuvenation) * Vrishya
(aphrodisiacs)
Travelite (India) offers customised Ayurveda packages and courses at
popular centres in India.
Medical Tourism includes the provision of cost effective private
medical care for patients needing surgical and other forms of
specialised treatments. Medical or Health tourism has become a
popular form of vacationing, and combines leisure and relaxation with
wellness and healthcare.
To meet the growing demand for medical tourism, Travelite (India) has
aligned itself with leading international standard hospitals in India and
specialist panel of doctors to provide necessary information and
services on various medical treatments to patients. Our role is to
provide access to a panel of reputed specialists to help the patient
identify a suitable hospital and doctor providing the appropriate
treatment for his / her ailment.
India offers expertise in a range of surgical and elective procedures,
popular ones being:
* Hip Resurfacing * Hip Replacement * Knee
Replacement * Spinal Cord Surgery * Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting
(C.A.B.G.) * Coronary Balloon Angioplasty & Stent Implantation
*Angiography * Cardiac Valve Replacement * Gastric Bypass * Gastric
Banding * Plastic Surgery
* Eye care including treatments for cataract,
glaucoma, treatment for retinal diseases and laser surgeries * ENT
treatments for disorders related to diseases, injuries, or deformations
of the ears, nose, throat * Dental care including implants, crowns,
bridges, dentures, root canal treatments and aesthetic beauty
treatments * Cosmetic treatments
Surgical Procedures
Elective Procedures
22 DID YOU KNOW? Yoga originated in India and has been practiced by Indians for over 5,000 years.
WELLNESS IN INDIA
Yoga & Meditation
The birthplace of yoga and meditation, India is an ideal destination for
rejuvenation of mind, body and soul. Offering techniques for self
realization and purification, yoga and meditation present a complete
spiritual experience. A discipline of exercises for physical and mental
well being, yoga combines stylised postures with deep breathing and
meditation to achieve a calm and focussed body and mind.
Travelite (India) offers customised yoga and meditation packages and
courses at popular retreats in India.
23www.traveliteindia.com
Relaxing Spas
Popular Retreats
If you wish to get away from the hustle and bustle of city life, and relax
in the serenity of India, we offer you some hand picked destinations,
with renowned relaxing Spas to de-stress and calm your senses.
Ranging from north to south India, spectacular spa resorts can be
found all across the country. From hidden hamlets in the Himalayas to
sandy Goan beaches, backwaters of Kerala, outskirts of metropolitan
cities, there is a relaxing haven near you, wherever you are in India!
*Ananda In The Himalayas, Rishikesh
* Niraamaya Surya Samudra, Kovalam * The Leela, Kovalam
* Carnaustie Ayurveda & Wellness Resort, Marari * Somatheeram &
Manaltheeram Beach Resort, Kovalam * Travancore Heritage, Kovalam
* CGH Kalari Kovilakom, Palakkad * CGH Kalari Rasayana, Kollam
* Neeleshwar Hermitage, Neeleshwar * CGH SwaSwara, Gokarna
* Soukya, Bangalore * Kumarakom Lake Resort, Kumarakom * CGH
Coconut Lagoon, Kumarakom * CGH Marari Beach Resort, Marari
* Dr Franklin Panchkarma Institute, Kovalam * Bethsaida Hermitage,
Kovalam
: Ranked amongst the best spas of the world, Oberoi Spas
provide a serene and truly unforgettable experience of pure pampering
and relaxation in exquisitely beautiful surroundings, using holistic
therapies and massages which combine the very best of Eastern and
Western practices.
* Vanyavilas, Ranthambore * Udaivilas, Udaipur * Amarvilas, Agra
* Rajvilas, Jaipur * Wildflower Hall in the Himalayas, Shimla * The
Oberoi, New Delhi * Oberoi Gurgaon
Ayurveda & Yoga Retreats
Oberoi Spas
Taj Spas
Other Popular Spas:
: A seamless blend of old-world charm and new-age luxuries,
Taj Spas promise the finest and most unique leisure experiences. Taj
Spas offer a spectrum of authentic and traditional Indian wellness
treatments and experiences in a stylish and soothing ambience.
* Taj Rambagh Palace, Jaipur * Taj Jai Mahal Palace, Jaipur * Taj Umaid
Bhawan Palace, Jodhpur * Taj Lake Palace, Udaipur * Taj Exotica, Goa
* Taj Falaknuma Palace, Hyderabad
* Sereno Spa, Park Hyatt Goa * ESPA at The Leela,
Delhi & Bangalore * Devigarh Resort, Udaipur * Kaya Kalp - ITC
Mughal, Agra * The Imperial Spa, Delhi * The Zuri Resort & Spa,
Kumarakom
WELLNESS IN INDIA
LUXURY TRAIN JOURNEYS
24 DID YOU KNOW? Games like 'Chess and Snakes and Ladders were invented in India.' ' '
MAHARAJAS' EXPRESS
INDIAN SPLENDOUR
HERITAGE OF INDIA
TREASURES OF INDIA
GEMS OF INDIA
THE INDIAN PANAROMA
A train that never falls short of promising you a royal experience, the
Maharajas' Express features five carriages for Deluxe Cabins, six for
Junior Suites, two for Suites and one for grand Presidential Suite. Every
cabin has large panoramic windows, individual temperature controls,
LCD televisions, DVD players, direct dial telephone, internet and an
electronic safe deposit box. The Maharajas' Express features two fine
dining restaurants, an exotic Safari bar and a Raja Club Lounge.
The train offers a variety of journeys through different regions of India
across varying durations. Each journey has fixed departure dates.
(7 Nights) : Delhi - Agra - Ranthambore - Jaipur -
Bikaner - Jodhpur - Udaipur - Balasinor – Mumbai
(7 Nights): Mumbai - Ajanta - Udaipur - Jodhpur -
Bikaner - Jaipur - Ranthambore - Agra – Delhi
(3 Nights): Delhi - Agra - Ranthambore - Jaipur
– Delhi
(3 Nights): Delhi - Agra - Ranthambore - Jaipur – Delhi
(7 Nights): Delhi – Jaipur – Ranthambore
– Fatehpur Sikri - Agra - Gwalior – Orchha - Khajuraho - Varanasi -
Lucknow – Delhi
LUXURY TRAIN JOURNEYS
The opulence, splendour, lavish lifestyle and cultural heritage of the
princely states of India is reflected not only in the forts, palaces and
havelis of the country but also in India's luxury trains and royal
carriages. Touring India aboard a luxury train, makes travel between
destinations as much of an experience as the destinations
themselves!
Luxury train tours provide guests an experience of a life time,
exploring palaces, forts, museums, temples, wildlife parks, mixing
with people of the land during the day and resting in royal luxurious
saloons of the train at night. Step aboard and explore India like
Royalty!
PALACE ON WHEELS
Tour Route
Tour Duration
Departure Days
Operates from
Roll back the pages of time for one glorious week, re-capture the pomp
and luxury of history in royal grandeur. Step aboard the Palace on
Wheels, once the personal railway coaches of erstwhile rulers of the
princely states of Gujarat and Rajputana, the viceroy of British India
and the Nizam of Hyderabad.
Rated amongst the 10 best luxury rail journeys in the world, the
exquisite and exclusive 'Palace On Wheels features 14 fully air-
conditioned deluxe saloons with 4 chambers each, wall to wall
carpeting, a well stocked bar and 2 dining cars.
: New Delhi - Jaipur - Sawai Madhopur -
Chittaurgarh - Udaipur - Jaisalmer - Jodhpur -
Bharatpur - Agra – Delhi
: 7 Nights / 8 Days
: Every Wednesday
: September to April
'
25www.traveliteindia.com
GOLDEN CHARIOT
Tour Route
Tour Duration
Departure Days
Operates from
Golden Chariot inherits its name from the Stone Chariot in Hampi.
Taking you on an enchanting and mesmerising journey through
Karnataka, the Golden Chariot complements the rich culture of the
state of Karnataka, and is a marvel in itself. The coach chambers of the
train are steeped in history, under a sky of intricate craftsmanship that
narrates timeless tales. A journey on board the Golden Chariot will give
you a chance to experience the luxurious lifestyle of erstwhile
Maharaja's, seeing history and heritage unfold itself!
The Golden Chariot features 26 twin bed cabins, 17 double bed cabins
and 1 cabin for physically challenged. There are 2 lavish restaurant
cars, a well stocked lounge/bar car, an Ayurvedic massage centre and a
gymnasium.
: PRIDE OF THE SOUTH: Bangalore - Kabini -
Srirangapatnam - Mysore - Shravanabelagola -
Belur - Halebid - Hampi - Badami - Pattadakal –
Goa – Bangalore
SOUTHERN SPLENDOUR: Bangalore - Chennai -
P o n d i c h e r r y - T a n j a v u r - M a d u r a i -
Thiruvananthpuram - Alleppey - Kochi –
Bangalore
: 7 Nights / 8 Days
: Fixed Departure Dates
: September to April
DECCAN ODYSSEY
Tour Route
Tour Duration
Departure Days
Operates from
The Deccan Odyssey flaunts tourism jewels of the state of
Maharashtra, including the heritage, ancient caves, local arts, crafts
and cuisine of the state. The week long Deccan Odyssey tour includes
exotic destinations covering the vast expanse of Maharashtra and a
pinch of Goa.
The Deccan Odyssey has 21 coaches, of which 11 are passenger cars
with 4 coupes each. There are 2 Presidential Suite Cars with 2 coupes
in each. The train also has a conference car (can be redesigned as dance
floor at night) and 2 restaurant cars. There is also a lounge/bar car and
a Spa Car.
: Mumbai - Sindhudurg - Tarkarli - Goa - Kolhapur -
Daulatabad - Tadoba - Ajanta - Nashik – Mumbai
: 7 Nights / 8 Days
: Fixed Departure dates
: September to April
ROYAL RAJASTHAN ON WHEELS
Tour Route
Tour Duration
Departure Days
Operates from
The Royal Rajasthan on Wheels was conceived to rekindle heritage and
luxury with modern amenities. The train is designed in contemporary
royal style, featuring exquisite silk and velvet bedspreads and
draperies, and finely carved wooden furniture in the super-deluxe
suite. This luxury train is a regal delight, where every moment is woven
together into an everlasting experience.
Royal Rajasthan on Wheels features 13 deluxe coaches named after
the famous palaces of Rajasthan and the super deluxe coach called
'Taj Mahal'. There are 2 lavish and well stocked restro-bars, a business
centre, board room and fitness centre.
: New Delhi – Jodhpur – Udaipur – Chittaurgarh
– Sawai Madhopur – Jaipur – Khajuraho –
Varanasi – Agra – New Delhi
: 7 Nights / 8 Days
: Every Sunday
: September to April
LUXURY TRAIN JOURNEYS
WILDLIFE ENCOUNTERS
With its incredibly diverse climate, terrain and vegetation, India is
home to a variety of wildlife, bird-life, flora and fauna. There are a
number of protected areas and wildlife parks in India, offering first
hand encounters with the royal Indian tiger, the majestic elephants,
leopards, one horned rhino's and other wildlife.
RANTHAMBORE
BHARATPUR
SARISKA
KANHA
, acclaimed as one of the best places in the world to
photograph tigers in the wild. Situated in Rajasthan, near the outer
fringes of the Thar Desert, Ranthambore is surrounded by Vindhya and
Aravalli ranges. Popular wildlife to be seen at the national park
includes sambar, chital, blue bull, chinkara, langur, wild boar, sloth
bear, jackal, tigers and leopards, and crocodiles around the lake.
, a world heritage site, famous for Keoladeo Ghana
National Park, is located on the eastern edge of Rajasthan. A marshy
area, stretching over 29 sq km of forests, grasslands and shallow lakes,
the park offers over 350 species of birds, native and migratory.
Bharatpur is the Siberian Crane's only known wintering ground in
India.
, sprawling across 800 sq km of Aravalli ranges, is easily
accessible by road from Delhi or Jaipur. The erstwhile hunting resort of
the royal family of Alwar, Sariska national park is home to leopard,
jungle cat, hyena, jackal, sambar, nilgai, wild boar and tiger.
, in the central Indian state of Madhya Pradesh, is spread over
1,945 sq. km of dense Sal forests, interspersed with extensive
meadows, trees and clumps of wild bamboo. Kanha national park is
best known as the natural habitat of the tiger and as home to Mowgli in
Rudyard Kipling's famous 'Jungle Book .'
BANDHAVGARH
PENCH
PANNA
, renowned for its fabulous white tigers, is also home
to a variety of species of mammals and birds. The national park, in the
heart of Madhya Pradesh, has a number of domesticated elephants,
allowing you to enjoy elephant safaris on your tiger hunt. Bandhavgarh
wildlife park is set in the Vindhya mountain range with the highest
known density of tiger population in India.
, one of central India's lesser known reserves, is a small national
park, dominated by hills, forests and valleys. The park derives its name
from River Pench, which runs from north to south, dividing the park
into almost equal halves. A typical central Indian teak jungle, Pench
supports a rich variety of wildlife, including tiger, leopard, gaur,
sambar, chital and brilliant birdlife.
, situated in the Vindhya ranges, along the banks of the River
Ken, is a mere 30 km from the world famous temples at Khajuraho.
With its deep ravines, cascading waterfalls and thick teak forests,
Panna national park is predominantly a plateau, with sprawling
flatlands punctuated by hills, deep valleys and gorges. The reserve is
renowned for sightings of nilgai, sambar, chital, wild boar, crocodile,
leopard, wolf, hyena, jackal, sloth bear and sometimes even tigers.
WILDLIFE ENCOUNTERS
26 DID YOU KNOW? The value of 'Pi' was first calculated in India in the 6th century.
CORBETT
PERIYAR
SUNDERBANS
KAZIRANGA
, India's first national park, set up in 1936, is located in the
foothills of Western Himalayas. The Park was created with the help and
advice of the great hunter and conservationist, Jim Corbett. Enjoy jeep
and elephant safari's here, seeing sambar, deer, antelope, wild
elephants, crocodiles, a variety of birds and maybe even tigers.
, is set within the ranges of Western Ghats in the south Indian
state of Kerala. Enjoy exploring the wildlife reserve aboard a boat
cruise on Lake Periyar, spotting local wildlife including gaurs, sambars,
deer, and elephants along the banks.
, a UNESCO world heritage site, treasures dense
mangrove forests, winding rivers, narrow creeks, remote villages and
tribal settlements. Part of the world's largest delta formed by River
Ganges and Brahmaputra, Sunderbans is home to a variety of wildlife
including wild crocodiles, spotted deer, and the majestic royal Bengal
tiger.
, is situated in the north eastern state of Assam, along the
banks of the mighty Brahmaputra River. Kaziranga national park is the
natural habitat to one of the most endangered species in the world, the
one horned rhino. Enjoy elephant safari's in this remote national park,
sighting a variety of birdlife and wildlife along with freely roaming one
horned rhino's.
WILDLIFE ENCOUNTERS
MANAS
GIR
, is situated along the foothills of Himalayas, in the north
eastern state of Assam. Manas national park is a stunning pristine
wildlife habitat, with spectacular landscapes. A world heritage site,
Manas national park is a tiger, elephant and biosphere reserve. Named
after River Manas, this national park is renowned for rare and
endangered Assam Roofed Turtle, Hispid Hare, Golden Langur and
Pygmy Hog.
, situated in the western state of Gujarat, is the last abode of the
Asiatic lions in India. Gir national park is also home to other wildlife
such as leopards, sambars, deers and marsh crocodiles. The park is also
a paradise for bird watchers with frequent sightings of changeable
hawk eagle, crested serpent eagle, Bonneli's eagle, Peregrine falcon,
black-hooded and golden oriels, and marshall's
* Taj Mahua Kothi, Bandhavgarh National Park * Taj Baghvan, Pench
National Park * Taj Pashan Garh, Panna National Park * Taj Banjaar
Tola, Kanha National Park * Oberoi Vanyavilas, Ranthambore National
Park * Aman-i-Khas, Ranthambore National Park
Luxury Wildlife Retreats
27www.traveliteindia.com
SPECIAL INTEREST TOURS
GOLF : TEE OFF IN INDIA
India was the first country outside Great
Britain to take up the game of golf. Golf
had already been played in India for more
than half a century, before the first major
course was opened in USA and Europe!
Tee off in India and enjoy the diversity of
its golf courses. Not only does India have
the oldest golf club in the world (outside
Great Britain), the Royal Calcutta Golf Club
established in 1829, but also the highest,
at Gulmarg (altitude 2,700 metres) in
Kashmir. There are golf courses in the
mountains, plains, deserts and at beach
resorts. Each course is unique in its
culture and history, highlighting all that
makes India a diverse destination.
Golf courses in India are located in
strategic cities and have convenient
d o m e s t i c a n d i n t e r n a t i o n a l a i r
connections along with world class
accommodation.
Allow us to arrange customized golf tour
packages for you. Let us take care of all
your travel arrangements so you can have
a hassle free tour and enjoy the game.
FESTIVAL CELEBRATIONS
India, the land of colour and celebrations,
is a rich country exuberating festivities
365 days a year!
The large population, geographic and
cultural variety, and the number of
religions practiced by the people of India,
makes every day an occasion and a reason
to celebrate. Where ever you are in India,
you will never be far from festivities!
We have hand picked a selection of
popular Indian festivals from different
parts of the country that are sure to
impress tourists. Not only are these
festivals entertaining, they are also
educative, allowing you to learn more
about our country, its people and their
customs and beliefs.
Contact us for suggestions on most
suitable festival to attend in the most
convenient place at the most appropriate
time.
All our festival tour suggestions are
custom designed to suit particular
interests and requirements.
GOURMET TOURS
The finest of India's cuisines are as rich
and diverse as the country's civilization!
Indian cooking is a form of art that has
f l o u r i s h e d t h r o u g h g e n e r a t i o n s .
Renowned for its exotic gravies, Indian
food is wide ranging in variety, taste and
flavour. Given the geographic diversity of
the country, each region has its own
cuisine and distinct style of preparation.
Ranging from the tandoori grills,
chapattis, cottage cheese and milky
sweets of north India; to the spicy veggies,
pickles and chutneys of Rajasthan and
Gujarat; the Portuguese influenced Goan
specialities; the rice, dosa and coconut
flavoured sea food of south India; to the
simple delicacies and extravagant sweets
of east India - Indian food is a potpourri of
flavours and aromas.
We organise gourmet tours to India
covering the length and breadth of the
country in a platter full of variety. To
enhance the experience, our trademark
gourmet tours have been designed to
include cooking demonstrations, tête -
à-tête with renowned chefs, meals at
speciality restaurants, visits to local food
markets, local family hosted dinners and
where possible a visit to spice plantations.
SPECIAL INTEREST TOURS
India offers a variety of special interest tours, to suit the
requirements and unique interests of discerning travellers.
Travelite (India) organises a selection of tours, covering a range of
such special interests. Our focus remains on making the tour
tangible, so you can touch, feel and experience the real sights,
flavours and marvels of your tour, making it a memorable
experience. Each tour is accompanied by professional experts, hand
picked by us for their experience and knowledge of the subject.
28 DID YOU KNOW? Plastic surgery and brain surgery were performed in India more than 2,600 years ago.
ARCHITECTURAL MARVELS
Being one of the oldest civilizations on
earth, India is an architectural
wonderland. India's architecture reflects a
fusion of various cultures and religions
amalgamated with waves of time.
The architectural wonders of India
include Himalayan Crown: Ladakhi
architecture, arising from basic survival
needs in the Himalayan weather; Buddhist
monasteries with Tibetan influences;
North India : majestic forts and palaces of
Rajasthan; farming centric architectural
style of Punjab; British influence in the
grand Parliament structures of New Delhi;
amalgamation of Hindu and Muslim
architectural styles of Old Delhi; world
famous architectural masterpiece of Taj
Mahal in Agra ; Central India : rock cut
caves of Ajanta and Ellora; great Buddhist
stupa at Sanchi; temples and shrines of
Orchha and Ujjain; erotic sculptured
Khajuraho temples; West India : Victorian
influence in the famous landmarks of
central Mumbai ; influences of the Indus
Valley Civilization in the architecture
and fascinating step wells of Gujarat ;
East India : remains of British architecture
in Kolkata and Darjeeling ; East
Himalayan architecture with Tibetan
influence in Himalayan foothills of Sikkim;
South India : exquisite temples of
Hoysalas and Chalukyas ; fascinating
ruins of Hampi; Maharajas Palace of
Mysore; colourful temples of Madurai;
rock cut extravagance of Mahabalipuram;
backwaters architecture of Kerala; galaxy
architecture of Auroville
TEXTILE TOURS
Indian textiles are rich in variety, owing to
great diversity in the cultural set-up of
Indian society. The textiles produced in
different regions of India are unique and
epitomize historical traditions and
artistry.
Indian textile marvels range from
Pashmina, the soft and luxurious wool,
reflecting the meticulous craftsmanship
of Kashmir ; Phulkari, the colourful floral
embroidery, originating from Punjab;
Bandhani, a unique fashion from
Rajasthan and Gujarat, featuring rainbow-
tinged fabrics often used as turbans by
men and skirts and scarves by women of
the region ; Block Printing, the ancient
trait of Rajasthan ; Ikat, the age-old art of
weaving in Patan; Khadi, the Indian
handspun and hand-woven fabric
endorsed by Mahatma Gandhi; Kantha
work, the local Bengali tradition of
embroidery; Banarasi Brocade, the rich
woven silks of Varanasi; Kanchipuram
Silk, a speciality of Kanchipuram, valued
for its gold and silver threads ; Muga Silk,
of Assam used in manufacturing warm
winter clothes, and the list could go on
forever!
We take you behind the scenes to show
you how exotic masterpieces of Indian
textiles are woven and designed to
precision. Meet artisans and weavers
perfecting their generations old trade, see
ancient handlooms in real life, appreciate
the natural processes used for dying and
printing, see the wooden blocks creating a
medley of designs on fabric, and try your
hand at making your own piece of silk!
GEMS & JEWEL TRAILS
Desire for precious jewels, stones and
metals is not new to Indian men and
women. Excavations at the site of Indus
Valley civilization, dating back to 3rd
century unearthed several examples of
jewellery fashioned with skill. Today, that
historic passion has transformed into a
modern and thriving industry, marked
with quality, precision and perfection.
Gold, the yellow majestic shiny metal, has
been at the centre stage of India's rich
legends. Gold hubs in India are centred
around southern states of Karnataka,
Andhra Pradesh and Tamilnadu. Silver
ornaments popular in rural India and
tribal societies, form a large chunk of
jewellery exports from India. The states of
Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, and
Karnataka are famous for their finely
crafted silver jewellery. Diamonds are
found in abundance in Gujarat, as majority
of the worlds diamonds are flown into
Gujarat to be cut and polished for that
sparkling lusture. Pearls, associated with
wealth, purity and dignity, are found in
abundance in Hyderabad in Andhra
Pradesh, which is the largest centre for
pearl trading in the world! Ivory engraving
and carving is a medium of artistic
expression in India from times
immemorial. Ivory inlaid furniture,
miniature paintings, centre pieces,
decorative plaques, and carved elephant
figures are few popular ivory products
sought from India.
SPECIAL INTEREST TOURS
29www.traveliteindia.com
ADVENTURE IN INDIA
Crowned by the Himalayan ranges in the north and surrounded by
stretches of emerald oceans in the south, India provides a range of
adventure tour options.
From trekking in the snow capped Himalayan ranges, to river rafting
in the gushing fresh water rivers, camping in varied terrains,
experiencing close wildlife encounters on jungle safaris, snorkelling
in the exotic oceans, India offers ample choice for adventure
enthusiasts.
ANGLING
WHITE WATER RAFTING
SCUBA DIVING AND SNORKELLING
CYCLING
WALKING
in the majestic Himalayan valleys, snow-fed streams, high
altitude lakes, innumerable rivers along the Ganges plains, and wide
coastal stretches of the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal
in the rivers of Ladakh, down the Himalayan
ranges along River Ganges and its tributaries in Shivpuri and Rishikesh
in Goa, Lakshadweep, and
Andaman and Nicobar Islands, watching the beautiful underwater
marine life and virgin coral reefs.
in the mountainous trails of Himalayan ranges, along the
serene backwaters and villages of Kerala, down the coastal belt of Goa,
in the golden triangle discovering the heritage of Jaipur and Agra, and
through rustic Rajasthani villages.
through Himalayan villages, rural Rajasthani hamlets,
Keralan spice plantations, the French town of Pondicherry, the
Portuguese interior of Goa
ADVENTURE IN INDIA
30 DID YOU KNOW? Algebra, Trigonometry and Calculus were first formulated in India.
CAMPING
TREKKING
SKIING AND HELI SKIING
WILDLIFE SAFARIS
DESERT SAFARIS
MOUNTAINEERING
HORSE RIDING
CANOEING
FARMING
in varied terrains ranging from the high Himalayan altitude,
to the sand dunes of Rajasthan and the jungles of Sunderbans
in north and north east Himalayas ranging from Ladakh and
Zanskar ranges, to the mountains of Shimla and Manali, Garhwal and
Kumaon, and the north east region of Sikkim and Darjeeling
along the Himalayan glaciers and slopes of
Auli, Gulmarg, Pithoragarh, Solang Valley, Shimla, Manali, Nainital
on jeeps, canters and elephant backs in numerous
national wildlife parks spread across India
on jeeps and camel backs through the sand dunes
and rustic villages of Rajasthan
in the Himalayan stretches from north to north-
east of India along the regions of Ladakh, Garhwal, Kumaon, Kullu
Valley, Spiti, and Sikkim.
in rural villages of Rajasthan and green meadows of
Himalayan ranges
in country boats along the backwater canals and ethnic
villages of Kerala
along with local farmers in the fertile plains of Punjab or
paddy fields of Kerala
ADVENTURE IN INDIA
31www.traveliteindia.com
M.I.C.E
Our M.I.C.E team has a host of ideas to offer when it comes to your
Meetings, Incentives, Conferences or Events in the Indian
subcontinent. We ensure your event is handled professionally by an
expert member of our M.I.C.E Team, who remains accessible and
accountable to you at all times.
Incentive Tours :
Meetings & Conferences :
We create customized incentive solutions for your
clients to suit their requirements and preferences. When we start
working on your incentive request we will discuss in detail about the
nature of event, profile of client, expectation from the destination and
experience, duration of tour, pace of tour etc to suggest an incentive
tour that is most appropriate to meet your clients request.
From initial stages of venue search through
to post event evaluation we adopt a comprehensive approach to ensure
all aspects of the event are concurrently reviewed and assessed. We
understand and appreciate the inherent differences between different
types of meetings and conferences such as a sales kick off meeting, a
pharma training, a financial forecast meeting or a bankers conference
– each conference is approached with an industry specific perspective
to ensure we deliver on expectations.
Our first step i.e. 'understanding your precise requirement' guides us
all the way to a successful finale. This understanding navigates every
important step including:
* Recommending & contracting of ideal event venue * Recommending
& contracting for accommodation * Theme & Logo development
* Promotional marketing campaign * Registration services * Event
management services * Efficient administrators & secretarial staff for
'back-room' management * Audio Visual requirements * Set design and
Production style * Multilingual real time translation requirements
* Emergency Medical Services * Fully networked computerized
operations * Organizing pre & post tours * Organizing spouse
programmes and arrangements for accompanying guests * Travel and
transport arrangements * Airport facilitation services * Organizing
Gifts, Certificates, Trophies for the event
Themes
To keep your guests amused and entertained, a variety of theme events
can be organized in India. Contact us for details and more ideas.
: An evening of royal splendour that takes
you back in time to the golden era of the Mughal dynasty, can be
arranged at a 5* hotel or in an outdoor setting.
: Recreating the splendour of an
Indian village, an outdoor venue in a garden setting is set up to look like
a mock village, with artisans showcasing their skills, arts and crafts
: A Palace hotel
decorated and illuminated for the evening, where guests arrive in
camel carts, recreating the magic of the lifestyle of erstwhile
Maharaja's of India.
: Enjoy a royal nomadic
experience, on a camel safari in the
desert and nearby villages,
followed by dinner and dance at a
desert camp, an experience very
unique to Rajasthan.
: Cruise through the
backwaters of Kerala aboard a
beautifully decorated house boat,
enjoying Keralan cuisine on board and
splendid fireworks on the shores.
ROYAL MUGHAL THEME
ETHNIC INDIAN VILLAGE THEME
INDIAN DURBAR EVENING AT A PALACE HOTEL
CAMEL SAFARI AND SAND DUNE
EVENING
TRANQUIL BACKWATERS OF
KERALA
M.I.C.E
32 DID YOU KNOW? Place value system and decimal system were developed in India.
33www.traveliteindia.com
Activities
If your guests would like some action, and prefer to get out and
experience the real India, allow us to provide them an experience of a
lifetime! Read on for a few interesting activities that can be arranged in
India. Contact us for details and more ideas.
: Ride on elephant backs and play the sport
of erstwhile Maharaja's of Rajasthan, the royal game of Elephant Polo!
: Enjoy a sunrise hot air
balloon flight and village safaris, at various locations in Rajasthan such
as Jaipur, Pushkar, Ranthambore.
: Experience a stay at a
fine desert camp of Rajasthan, along with camel safaris to nearby
villages. To make the experience more rustic, we can put up our own
tents in the middle of nowhere!
ELEPHANT POLO MATCH
HOT AIR BALLOON FLIGHT & VILLAGE SAFARI
GO CAMPING IN THE DESERTS OF RAJASTHAN
ENJOY A WILDLIFE SAFARI
VILLAGE WALKS IN THE HIMALAYAS
LEARN TO COOK A TYPICAL INDIAN MEAL
WATCH THE SPECTACULAR PERFORMANCE MOHABBAT-THE-TAJ
: Visit the wildlife parks in India, where you
can enjoy first hand encounter with the royal Indian tiger, the majestic
elephants, leopards, one horned rhino's and other wildlife.
: One of the most fascinating
and unique ways to discover the hidden beauty of Himalayas is through
village walks amidst the serenity of the mighty Himalayas.
: The finest of India's
cuisines are as rich and diverse as the country's civilization! Step inside
an Indian kitchen and learn the age old art of Indian culinary delights.
:
Witness the Indian heritage come alive, with a fascinating theatre
performance 'Mohabbat-the-Taj : the saga of love , the only show of its
kind in India!
'
M.I.C.E
PRIVATE CHARTERS
PRIVATE CHARTERS
Save your precious time,
Avoid commercial terminals,
Make your own itinerary &
Select your own landing destination...
Discover the convenience of flying in helicopters and private aircrafts. We understand that truly luxurious travel is carefree travel,
with a sense of ease and plenty of pampering.
With private planes and helicopters you can have access to airfields in more than 400 cities and towns of India as compared to less
than 200 that can be reached by regular commercial airlines. The helicopters we arrange have the ability to land almost anywhere, so
you get unmatched connectivity to every corner of the country.
Travelite (India) has aligned itself with reputed international companies, offering top of the range aircrafts and helicopters to provide
you ultimate luxury in the Indian sub continent.
Discover the quickest and the most luxurious way to explore our Incredible India!
34 DID YOU KNOW? In 5,000 BC, Indians used numbers as large as 10^53 (10 to the power of 53).
WEDDINGS IN INDIA
Indian weddings are known for their grandeur and magnificence. With
opulent celebrations, lasting over several days, the extravagance
ranges from elephant processions, flower showers by helicopters,
grand splendid marquees and decor, elaborate fireworks, fire dances,
and performances by Bollywood celebrities!
India offers a range of options for theme weddings, such as:
Exotic Beach Weddings in Goa and Kovalam
In Lavish Palaces, Forts and Heritage Havelis of Rajasthan
In Desert Camps amidst the sand dunes of Rajasthan
Along the Backwaters of Kerala
In the snow capped Himalayan Ranges
A Jungle Wedding at a Wildlife Resort
Cosmopolitan City Celebrations
A Portuguese Church Wedding
We work with professional wedding planners to provide you with
complete services ranging from * Selection of venue * Decoration of
venue * Arranging the wedding ceremony of your choice * Registration
requirements * Wedding day management * Elaborate buffet and
Champagne dinner * Exclusive accommodation for bride and groom
and accompanying guests * Transport arrangements * Professional
photographers * Hair and make up * Wedding dress for bride and
groom * Wedding cake * Luxury spa treatment for bride and groom
* Honeymoon arrangements and everything to make your Indian
wedding a memorable experience to be cherished forever!
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
l
WEDDINGS IN INDIA
35www.traveliteindia.com
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
The Kingdom of Nepal is an extravaganza of culture, heritage and
natural Himalayan beauty. Despite being a small country, Nepal
offers a variety of experiences such as trekking in the hilly terrains
of Himalayan ranges, walking around villages and small towns and
mixing with the tribes of the region, boating in serene lakes, visiting
Hindu and Buddhist temples, experiencing an elephant back safari
and enjoying scenic flights over Mount Everest.
KATHMANDU
NAGARKOT
CHITWAN NATIONAL PARK
POKHARA
l
l
l
l
, the capital city of Nepal, is set in an exotic valley, with
ancient Buddhist stupas and temples amidst stunning natural beauty.
The city is renowned for the impressive palaces and temples of Darbar
square, more than 2500 years old Swayambhunath stupa, the Hindu
temple of Pashupatinath, the intriguing eyes of Boudhanath stupa and
the potters, weavers and crafts of Bhaktapur.
, located towards the north east of Kathmandu, is famous
for its panoramic views of the snowy Himalayan peaks. Situated approx
2200 meters above sea level, Nagarkot offers stunning sunrise and
sunset views of the Himalayas, including a distant pyramid of Mount
Everest on a clear day.
, set in the subtropical southern region of
Nepal, is home to a variety of birds and wildlife including tigers,
elephants and indigenous one horned rhino. The park offers exciting
options of walking tours, jeep safaris, elephant back safaris and river
canoe trips.
, is situated on the shores of Lake Phewa, surrounded by
Annapurna range and the famous fishtail mountain. Offering
breathtaking scenery, Pokhara is the starting point of many treks in
Nepal. Boating, cycling, walking and trekking are popular ways to
enjoy the stunning beauty of Pokhara.
: Kathmandu - Nagarkot - Kathmandu -
Pokhara - Kathmandu
: Kathmandu - Nagarkot - Kathmandu - Pokhara
Chitwan National Park - Kathmandu
: Kathmandu - Chisopani - Nagarkot - Dhulikhel
- Kathmandu
: Kathmandu - Duhilikhel - Nagarkot-
Kathmandu - Kurintar - Pokhara - Chitwan National Park -
Kathmandu
Suggested Itineraries
Touch base with Nepal
Jewels of Nepal
Trekking Beauty
Nepalese Heights
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
36 DID YOU KNOW? Mount Everest (8,848 meters), the highest peak in the world, is located in Nepal.
NEPAL
Dhangadhi
Nepalganj Pokhara
Kathmandu
Chitwan N.P
Janakpur
Mount
Everest
Dharan
Biratnagar
H i m a l a y a n R a n g e
Nagarkot
Annapurna
Hotels in Nepal
Dwarika's Hotel, Kathmandu
Hyatt Regency, Kathmandu
Yak & Yeti, Kathmandu
Soaltee Crown Plaza, Kathmandu
Radisson, Kathmandu
Shangri-La, Kathmandu
Tiger Mountain Lodge, Pokhara
Fishtail Lodge, Pokhara
Tiger Tops Jungle Lodge, Chitwan
Tiger Tops Tented Camp, Chitwan
SCENIC FLIGHTS OVER MOUNT EVEREST
WHEN TO TRAVEL TO NEPAL
Nepal offers the unique experience of scenic mountain flights over the world's highest peak, Mount Everest. Enjoy spectacular views of the snow capped
Mount Everest and Himalayan ranges, aboard a small plane, with every seat having its own window! The hour long flight, takes off from Kathmandu airport.
Nepal's climate is very similar to North India, so the best time to travel is from October to March. Whilst December & January are cold months, they also
offer stunning views of Himalayan peaks. Being a mountainous country, morning and night temperatures drop significantly, even though the day may be
warm and pleasant. Game viewing in Chitwan National Park can be very chilly in the morning.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
37www.traveliteindia.com
BHUTAN : THE DRAGON KINGDOM
Bhutan, the serene mountain kingdom, untouched by modernity,
still retains its old world charm. Opened to tourists in 1974, Bhutan
is an ancient land, rich in Buddhist culture, where Buddhism
overpowers every aspect of routine life, art and traditions. Dotted
with ancient monasteries, temples and stupas, Bhutan lies in the
ranges of eastern Himalayas bordered by Tibet on the north and
India on the south.
PARO
PUNAKHA
THIMPHU
, the beautiful Bhutanese valley, encapsulates within itself a rich
culture, scenic beauty and hundreds of myths and legends. The most
historic city of Bhutan, Paro is popular for its Paro Dzong, also known
as Rinpung Dzong, meaning “fortress sitting on a heap of jewels”, a
fine example of Bhutanese architecture. Paro is also home to
Taktshang monastery, popularly called the Tiger's Nest, one of the
most popular spiritual heritage sites, perched precariously on the rock
face of a sheer cliff 2950m above the ground.
, the erstwhile winter capital of Bhutan, heralds the most
enchanting views of the Himalayas. Punakha Dzong was the second
dzong to be built in Bhutan and was the seat of government when
Punakha was the capital city. En-route from Paro to Punakha lies the
Dochula Pass, offering mesmerizing views of the Himalayan ranges,
valleys and meadows.
, the capital city of Bhutan, is the largest city and
administrative head office of Bhutan. Thimphu's landmark is
Trashichho Dzong, the impressive fortress/monastery which houses
the Secretariat building, the throne room of His Majesty and various
government offices. The National Memorial Chorten in Thimphu,
treasures paintings and statues providing a deep insight into Buddhist
philosophy. The city is also renowned for its Handicrafts Emporium,
Textile and Folk Heritage museum and the National Library displaying
a wide range of beautifully hand-woven textiles, craft products, books
on Bhutan, Buddhism and Himalayan culture and ancient Buddhist
texts and manuscripts.
BHUTAN : THE DRAGON KINGDOM
38 DID YOU KNOW? The national sport of Bhutan is Archery.
Gasa
Lhuntse
Trashigang
Mongar
Pemagatshel
Samdrup Jonghar
Dampu
Sarpang
DagaChhukha
Samtse
Thimphu Punakha
Wangdue
Zhemgang
Paro
Ha
Phuntsholing
Trongsa Jakar
BHUTAN
BHUMTHANG
TRONGSA
, a spectacular Bhutanese valley, is the largest valley in
the country. Popular sites in Bhumthang include the Kurje Lhakhang,
the resting place of deceased kings of Bhutan; the Jambe and Tamshing
Lhakhangs, two of the oldest temples dating to the 7th century; the
Jakar Dzong, the Dzong fabled to have been founded by a white bird.
Bhumthang markets offer the unique speciality of the region such as
rich woollen textiles dyed with natural colours and 'Yatas', a thin
woollen cloth with bright patterns often made into warm jackets and
scarves.
, the ancestral home of Bhutan's royal family, is renowned
for its Trongsa Dzong, one of the most impressive dzong in Bhutan,
built in 1647. The dzong's labyrinth of temples, corridors, offices and
living quarters for the monks add up to a masterpiece in Bhutanese
architecture. Located close to Trongsa is the Gantey valley and
Phobjika valley, well known as one of the last wintering grounds of the
endangered and graceful black-necked cranes that fly in from northern
China, Mongolia and Siberia.
Hotels in Bhutan
Suggested Itineraries
Touch Base with Bhutan
Discover Bhutan
Bhutanese Heights
Amankora, Paro
Uma, Paro
Taj Tashi, Thimphu
Amankora, Thimphu
Amankora, Punakha
Amankora, Bhumthang
: Paro - Thimphu - Punakha - Paro
: Paro - Punakha - Trongsa - Bhumthang-
Thimphu - Paro
: Paro - Thimphu - Wangdue - Punakha - Paro
The best time to visit Bhutan is during dry season which lasts from
October to May. Whilst December & January are cold months, they also
offer stunning views of Himalayan peaks. Pleasant day temperatures
allow convenient sightseeing even during winter months. Being a
mountainous country, morning and night temperatures drop
significantly, even though the day may be warm and pleasant.
l
l
l
WHEN TO TRAVEL TO BHUTAN
BHUTAN : THE DRAGON KINGDOM
39www.traveliteindia.com
SRI LANKA
Sri Lanka, the tea country island, is rich in cultural, archaeological
and natural treasures. Offering ample of colonial history, Sri Lanka is
a land of diversity with its towering Buddhas, ancient cities and
towns, green carpeted hill resorts, national wildlife parks, tea
plantations, scenic golf courses and beautiful beaches.
SRI LANKA
COLOMBO
lSIGIRIYA
lPOLONNARUWA
lDAMBULLA CAVES
KANDY
, the capital of Sri Lanka, is the largest city and main port of
Sri Lanka. It is also the commercial and financial center of the country.
A bustling metropolis, the city is an attractive blend of old and new
architecture and culture. Colombo is famous for its National Museum,
churches, Buddhist temples, parks and the focal areas of the Fort and
Pettah bazaar.
THE CULTURAL TRIANGLE, is the name given to the historic sites of
Sigirya, Dambulla and Polonnaruwa, located north east of Colombo.
rock towers over the surrounding landscape with steep
steps leading to the ruins of the 5th century fort on top. Also known
as Lion's rock, this ancient rock fortress is surrounded by the
remains of an extensive network of gardens, reservoirs, and other
structures. Sigiriya is also renowned for its ancient frescos,
reminiscent of the Ajanta Caves in India.
, an ancient city of Sri Lanka, dates back to the
11th century. The ruins of erstwhile palaces, temples, baths and
audience halls in Polonnaruwa indicate the sophisticated lifestyle
followed in the region in ancient times. The museum here stores a
good collection of antique statues and pottery. Nearby are five
magnificent statues of Lord Buddha, carved from bed rock in
standing, sitting and sleeping positions.
st
, date back to the 1 century and provide an
illuminating insight into Buddhism. These are the best preserved
cave temples in Sri Lanka and one of the finest in Asia. The caves
house more than 150 statues of Lord Buddha and intricate
paintings depicting Buddha and his life.
, the beautiful hill town, is set besides a lake and surrounded by
hills covered in spice and tea plantations. At its heart is the ancient
temple that houses the tooth relic of Lord Buddha. Within close
proximity to Kandy is the Pinnawela Elephant Orphanage, where you
can see herds of elephants being bathed and fed, where baby elephants
are hand fed with bottles.
40 DID YOU KNOW? Cinnamon, the fragrant spice, originated in Sri Lanka.
Anuradapura Polonnaruwa
Sigiriya
Dambulla
Kandy
Negombo
Airport Nuwara Eliya
Ella
Beruwela
Bentota
Uda Walawe Yala
Tissa
Hambantota
Galle
SRILANKA
Colombo
NUWARA ELIYA
NATIONAL PARKS
GALLE
, the picturesque hill resort, still retains its British
charm with its race track, golf course, and colonial bungalows with
gardens. Popular for its Ceylon tea, the town is surrounded by dozens
of tea estates and tea processing centres. With its natural beauty and
serenity, Nuwara Eliya, is a tranquil retreat, far from the bustling city
life.
in Sri Lanka are famed for their elephant herds,
crocodiles, sloth bear, leopards, and a variety of bird life. The most
popular wildlife park is Yala National Park, which is reported to have
the highest density of leopards in Asia. Other popular wildlife parks
include Uda Walawe National Park, Sinharaja Biosphere (a world
heritage rain forest, renowned for its variety of reptiles and birds) and
Minneriya National Park (located at the centre of the cultural triangle,
famous for its wild elephants).
, the coastal town along the south west coast of Sri Lanka, is
dotted with hidden beaches and beautiful beach resorts. The
Portuguese landed in Galle in the 16th century, followed by the Dutch
in the 17th century who built the walled fort, which has now been
declared as world heritage site.
Casa Colombo, Colombo
Elephant Stables, Kandy
Cinnamon Citadel, Kandy
Heritance Kandalama, Sigiriya
Cinnamon Lodge, Sigiriya
Heritance Tea Factory, Nuwara Eliya
Amangalla Resort, Galle
Saman Villas, Bentota
Hotels in Sri Lanka
SRI LANKA
Suggested Itineraries
Best of Sri Lanka
Gems Sri Lanka
Around Sri Lanka
l
l
l
WHEN TO TRAVEL TO SRI LANKA
: Colombo - Habarana - Sigirya - Kandy - Colombo
: Colombo - Sigirya - Kandy - Nuwara Eliya -
Colombo
: Colombo / Negombo - Sigiriya - Kandy - Nuwara
Eliya - Sinharaja - Galle - Colombo
Traditionally, Sri Lanka used to have 2 monsoon seasons i.e. May to
July in south west and December to January in north east of the
country. However, owing to the global climate change, rains now occur
even outside the official monsoon period. Sri Lanka experiences short
and heavy showers rather than prolonged rain, allowing sightseeing to
continue with short breaks! The highlands around Nuwara Eliya
remain cool throughout the year. With temperatures hovering around
late twenties to early thirties throughout the year, November to April is
a good time to travel around the country.
41www.traveliteindia.com
MALDIVES
MALDIVES
Maldives are a cluster of 1,190 emerald
islands with dazzling green centre of palm
trees fringed with white sand and bordered
by the clear turquoise Indian Ocean. A
paradise for sun lovers, snorkellers and
divers, Maldives is a perfect destination for
a romantic getaway, honeymoon or a
tranquil relaxing holiday. The airport, Male,
is located centrally between the islands, and
a speed boat or sea plane is used for airport
to hotel transfers. The Maldives feature a
variety of resorts, each resort located on its
own little island, with its own unique charm.
Accommodation ranges from individual
cottages to overwater villas. We present to
you a selection of some of the finest resorts
in Maldives.
MEDHUFUSHI ISLAND RESORT
CONRAD RANGALI ISLAND RESORT
, offering 112
private villas, each designed to offer subtle
and natural luxury in a picture-postcard
paradise, with every ingredient to satisfy your
dream of the perfect hideaway! For water-
s p o r t s e n t h u s i a s t s a n d d i v e r s t h e
opportunities are endless, whilst relaxation
seekers have a great selection of spa
therapies.
, an
award-winning resort, set on two private
islands among miles of picturesque white-
sand beach and vibrant coral reef. Arrive in
style in a seaplane over the lagoon, dine in the
world's first all-glass undersea restaurant and
indulge in luxurious spa therapies. Twice
voted 'Best Hotel in the World', the resort
boasts 50 luxurious water villas, 79 exotic
beach villas and 21 fabulous spa water villas
with private treatment rooms.
42 DID YOU KNOW? Maldives is the flatest country in the world.
MALDIVES
ADAARAN PRESTIGE WATER VILLAS
ONE AND ONLY REETHI RAH RESORT
SONEVA FUSHI BY SIX SENSES
W RETREAT & SPA MALDIVES
, located
centrally, a short ride away from Male, is a sublime
tropical paradise providing indulgent luxury. Guest
staying at the Water Villas experience the very best
in personalised luxury with each guest assigned
their own personal butler! Every need is tended to,
enabling you to completely relax in the serene and
enchanting tranquillity of this blissful heaven on
Earth.
, is a member
of the prestigious 'Leading Small Hotels of the
World', and winner of the 2008 Conde' Nast
Travellers Award for the best resort in the world.
With glorious Water Villas overlooking the placid,
rhythmic climes of the Indian Ocean, and adorned
with stunning white sandy coves and turquoise
waters this is undoubtedly heaven on earth.
, offers a subtle mix
of remoteness and sophistication, conveying the
natural charm and indigenous feel of the Maldives
with exceptional level of elegance and luxury. The
resort's philosophy of 'no news, no shoes' dictates
that guests should feel a real sense of 'abandon' and
'escape' here. The limited accommodation choices
ensure service is always of the highest order. The
island, measuring 1.5 km, is surrounded by exotic
jungles and lapping waves of the surrounding blue
lagoons for the perfect romantic setting.
, is an ultra-stylish
resort located on the exclusive island of Fesdu. W's
contemporary approach focusses on a lifestyle-
orientated concept that is in perfect harmony with
the island. The traditional Maldivian exteriors
conceal modern interiors with sweeping arcs of
gleaming white sand and calm turquoise waters.
Luxuriously appointed private accommodation
provides guests with every comfort; facilities and
out of the ordinary diving opportunities make this
island retreat the place to 'Get Set to Jet Set'
SHANGRI-LA'S VILLINGILI RESORT AND SPA
ZITAHLI RESORTS AND SPA KUDA FUNAFARU
,
offers a stylish experience in a spacious, all-villa
resort, surrounded by lush vegetation including
17,000 coconut trees and over 6 kilometres of
s c e n i c c o a s t l i n e . T a s t e f u l l y f u r n i s h e d
accommodation includes private ocean retreats and
tropical tree house villas - unique to the Maldives -
with superb views. Those seeking an experience
with a difference can enjoy a cruise on a luxury
yacht with lunch on the equator!
,
surrounded by untouched reefs, turquoise water
and pristine beaches, is a breathtaking luxury resort
comprising of 50 contemporary villas designed to
inspire peace, solitude and relaxation. Offering
privacy and seclusion, the resort exemplifies classic
Maldivian hospitality. The spa with plunge pools,
herbal baths, luxurious relaxation lounges provides
organic therapies with an holistic approach to
health and well-being. Arrival by seaplane will take
your breath away!
43www.traveliteindia.com
44
EXPERIENCE
THE INDIAN SUBCONTINENT
NORTH INDIA, NEPAL & BHUTAN
Experience the culture and spirituality of the Indian sub continent.
Enrich your senses in the medley of cultural extravaganza of North
India, Nepal and Bhutan
RAJASTHAN, THE LAND OF FORTS AND PALACES
Rajasthan, the 'Land of Princes', still living in its' historic past,
houses the largest number of forts and palaces in the world.
Renowned as the land of sand dunes and camel safari's, a trip to
India cannot be complete without a visit to Rajasthan
HEALTH AND WELLNESS
India is home to a wonderful collection of Yoga retreats, Ayurveda
(a vedic science known as 'the Science of Life') and Spa resorts.
Enjoy a luxurious stay at some of the finest wellness retreats in the
country
HIMALAYAN GLORY
In Sanskrit, Himalaya means "abode of snow" (hima' means 'snow',
and 'aalaya' means 'abode'). Experience the cool Himalayan breeze
in the land of sages
SOUTH INDIA & SRI LANKA
South India & Sri Lanka offer a variety ranging from Ayurveda and
Spas, to Beaches & Backwaters, Wildlife, Temples, Heritage &
Culture, Luxury Trains, Spice Plantations, Hill resorts and a lot
more.
WILDLIFE
Experience the rich diversity of the flora and fauna of the Indian
sub continent. The sight and sounds of a majestic elephant, a
peacock's dance, the one horned Rhino, the roar of a tiger are
unparalleled experiences offered by various Wildlife Parks in the
Indian subcontinent.
BEACHES AND BACKWATERS
Experience the serene beaches and backwaters of the Indian sub
continent
LUXURY TRAINS
India offers a beautiful selection of luxury trains operating in
different regions of the country.
NORTH INDIA * Varanasi * Khajuraho * Orchha * Agra * Kolkata * Delhi
* Haridwar * Rishikesh * Amritsar * Dharamsala
NEPAL * Kathmandu * Pokhara * Lumbini * Chitwan
BHUTAN * Paro * Punakha * Thimphu * Bhumthang
* Mandawa * Bikaner * Jaisalmer * Jodhpur
* Udaipur * Jaipur * Samode * Rohet * Pushkar
* Khimsar * Ranthambore * Nagaur * Ranakpur
* Ananda In The Himalayas, Rishikesh * Niraamaya Surya Samudra, Kovalam
* The Leela, Kovalam * Carnaustie Ayurveda & Wellness Resort, Marari
* Somatheeram & Manaltheeram Beach Resort, Kovalam * Travancore
Heritage, Kovalam * CGH Kalari Kovilakom, Palakkad * CGH Kalari Rasayana,
Kollam * Neeleshwar Hermitage, Neeleshwar * CGH SwaSwara, Gokarna
* Soukya, Bangalore * Kumarakom Lake Resort, Kumarakom * CGH Coconut
Lagoon, Kumarakom * CGH Marari Beach Resort, Marari * Dr Franklin
Panchkarma Institute, Kovalam * Bethsaida Hermitage, Kovalam
* Kashmir * Ladakh * Dalhousie * Dharamsala
* Shimla * Manali * Mussoorie * Darjeeling
* Almora * Sikkim
* Nepal * Bhutan
SOUTH INDIA * Mumbai * Kochi * Kumarakom * Alleppey * Munnar * Periyar
* Kovalam * Hyderabad * Hampi * Badami * Bangalore * Mysore * Ooty
* Chennai * Mahabalipuram * Kanchipuram * Pondicherry * Madurai
SRI LANKA * Colombo * Sigiriya * Polonnaruwa * Dambulla * Anuradhapura
* Kandy
INDIA * Kanha * Bandhavgarh * Bharatpur * Ranthambore * Corbett * Pench
* Manas * Bandipur * Sunderban * Kaziranga * Periyar * Sariska
NEPAL * Chitwan National Park
SRI LANKA * Yala National Park, * Uda Walawe National Park * Sinharaja
Biosphere * Minneriya National Park
INDIA * Goa * Kovalam * Kollam * Bekal * Kumarakom * Alleppey
* Mahabalipuram * Puri * Lakshdweep * Andaman
SRI LANKA * Galle * Bentota * Trincomalee
MALDIVES
* Palace on Wheels * Royal Rajasthan on Wheels
* The Deccan Odyssey * The Golden Chariot
* Maharajas' Express
W
R
E
I
T
N
H
T
U
R
S
A
P
45www.traveliteindia.com
Travelite (India)
Destination Management Company
Head Office : RZ – A / 96, Road No. 6,
Street No. 9, Mahipalpur Extension
New Delhi – 110037, India
Tel : 00-91-11- 4712 5200
Fax : 00-91-11- 4712 5205
Email : tours@traveliteindia.com
Website : www.traveliteindia.com
Recognised by Ministry of Tourism, Govt. of India
“Tourism is our business, but each tour is a travellers memory,
We take responsibility to ensure these memories are cherished forever”
Team Travelite (India)
Designed at printed at Adprint Service, New Delhi (India) 91-11-9811402730